 Vehicle ads onboarding guideSet up your accountsNext: Enable the vehicle ads program


  
     This is step 1 of the vehicle ads onboarding guide.
  


This article describes how to create and set up the accounts you need to show your vehicle ads.

Create your accounts

You need 3 separate accounts to show your vehicle ads: a Merchant Center account and a Google Ads account, as well as a Google Business Profile (not required if you submit a store feed).


  For ease of use and linking, we recommend adding the same email as an administrator user in your Merchant Center account and as a manager or owner in your Business Profile and Google Ads account.


Merchant Center

Your product information is submitted to Merchant Center. Follow the steps in Sign up for Google Merchant Center, if you don't already have a Merchant Center account, to submit your vehicle ads feed. Ensure that you verify and claim your website.


  If you’re using Merchant Center Next, switch to the classic Merchant Center experience.


Business Profile

Your dealership information is located in your Business Profile. If you don't already have a Business Profile, follow the steps below.


  Create a Business Profile to provide information about your dealership locations.
  Upload your dealership information in bulk. Don't use the “Add another business” option.



  Note: A Business Profile isn't required if you submit a Store Feed.


Google Ads account

You can use Google Ads to manage your ads, including vehicle ads. Create a Google Ads account if you don’t already have one.


  Note: All vehicle ads campaigns will be upgraded to Performance Max by September 2023.



Link your accounts

Link your Business Profile and Google Ads account to your Merchant Center account to connect information across these sources.


  Link Business Profiles and Merchant Center.
  Link a Google Ads account to Merchant Center.


Implementation guide


  Set up your accounts
  Enable the vehicle ads program
  Add your business information
  Create a primary feed
  Register and submit your feed
  Link your Business Profile and select your location group
  Create, register, and submit your store feed (Optional)
  Complete website policy review
  Link your Merchant Center and Google Ads accounts
  Enable vehicle ads in your Smart Shopping campaigns
  Enable vehicle ads in your Performance Max campaigns


Next: Enable the vehicle ads program             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       