 Vehicle ads image guidelines



The vehicle ads feature is designed to surface vehicle ads and dealer information to customers when the vehicle they're searching for is available nearby.


  
    Automatic image improvements aren't supported for Vehicle ads images yet.
  



  Note: All vehicle ads campaigns will be upgraded to Performance Max by September 2023.




On this page


  Image guidelines
  Image specifications
  Disapproval policies
  Allowed but discouraged



Image guidelines

The below guidelines outline policies for which images may get disapproved. We recommend having high quality, clean images with minimal background for best performance.

Image specifications


  
    
      File formats
      GIF (.gif), JPEG (.jpg/.jpeg), PNG (.png), BMP (.bmp), and TIFF (.tif/.tiff)
    
    
      Maximum file size
      16 MB
    
    
      Minimum image size
      100 X 100 pixels (recommended is 800 X 600)
    
    
      Maximum image size
      64 megapixels
    
    
      Recommended aspect ratio
      4:3
    
  



Disapproval policies

Offers will be disapproved if the images violate any of the following policies:

1. No overlaid watermarks



2. No superimposed logos or text



3. No placeholder images

Placeholder images such as “No Image”, “Coming Soon”, generic or stock image which is not the actual car, or using just the brand or dealer logo will be disapproved.


  Exception: Stock images are allowed for new cars as long as they show the same make, model, and color as the car listed.




4. No offensive content

Images which contain any inappropriate or sensitive visuals will be disapproved.

5. Include entire product

Accurately display the entire product with minimal or no product staging. Images which are truncated will be disapproved.


Allowed but discouraged

While offers may not be disapproved for the reasons below, it is not a good user experience and could negatively impact performance. We recommend avoiding these types of images for best results.

1. Logos or branding in the background

Google may use technical solutions like background blur or auto-cropping to make these images more consistent with our guidelines.



2. Modification on the license plate



3. Cluttered background

Google may use technical solutions like background blur or auto-cropping to make these images more consistent with our guidelines.



4. Rear angle images as the main image

Avoid submitting a rear angle image as the main image for the offer. These images can be submitted using the additional image link [additional_image_link] attribute.

Use the image link [image_link] attribute to submit the main image. We recommend using images taken from a front-to-side angle (at ~45 degrees).



Related links


  Vehicle ads overview
  Vehicle ads policies
  Implementation guide
  Vehicle ads image guidelines
  Vehicle ads Content API guidelines
  Vehicle ads troubleshooting form
  Enable vehicle ads in your Performance Max campaign


             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       