 Vehicle ads onboarding guideCreate, register, and submit your store feed (Optional)Store Feed SpecificationsNext: Complete website policy review


   This is step 5a of the vehicle ads onboarding guide.


This feed is required if you don’t own or manage the Business Profiles for your dealer locations. Such advertisers must submit an additional store feed with the below specifications. Reach out to your Google representative to request access to the store feed.

Important notes:


  Attribute headers: You must use the exact attribute headers listed below for your feed to be processed correctly.
  Optional fields: It's recommended to provide the optional fields to match the data provided with locations on Google Maps and validate the locations. The address and other attributes provided (for example, phone number) should match the address of the dealer or location used in Google Maps.
  Data freshness: Information from the store feed will expire after 90 days. If the data from this feed expires, you'll receive a "Missing inventory data" disapproval for your products. Ensure that you re-upload your store feed at least once every 30 days.



  
    
      Attribute
      Description
      Content
    
    
      store_code
      
      Required

      A short identifier to identify a dealership. No need to be the same as the store code in your Business Profile. Should match with the store code in the primary product feed.
      
      String
    
    
      store_address
      
      Required

      Postal address of the dealership.

      Note: Submit the full street address, including the country.
      
      String
    
    
      store_name
      
      Optional

      Business or dealership name
      
      String
    
    
      phone_number
      
      Optional

      Dealership phone number in international format
      
      String
    
    
      website_url
      
      Optional

      Business or dealership website URL
      
      String
    
  


Similar to your primary feed as per Step 5b, register and submit your store feed under “Other feeds”. When registering your store feed, select “POS store” as the feed type.



Once the store feed is submitted, it goes through a set of manual and AI-powered checks to ensure that the store codes match the store codes submitted in your vehicle feed and the dealership addresses and other details match with locations on Google Maps to ensure that the locations are validated.


  Note: All vehicle ads campaigns will be upgraded to Performance Max by September 2023.



Implementation guide


  Set up your accounts
  Enable the vehicle ads program
  Add your business information
  Create a primary feed
  Register and submit your feed
  Link your Business Profile and select your location group
  Create, register, and submit your store feed (Optional)
  Complete website policy review
  Link your Merchant Center and Google Ads accounts
  Enable vehicle ads in your Smart Shopping campaigns
  Enable vehicle ads in your Performance Max campaigns


Next: Complete website policy review             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       