 Vehicle ads onboarding guideComplete website policy reviewNext: Link your Merchant Center and Google Ads accounts


  This is step 6 of the vehicle ads onboarding guide.



  Note: All vehicle ads campaigns will be upgraded to Performance Max by September 2023.



How it works

Here’s how the process works:


  A customer clicks a vehicle ad.
  Google passes either:
    
      The Business Profile store code where the vehicle is available.
      The store code from your store feed (if you use the store feed).
    
  
  The dealer generates a landing page displaying a vehicle’s price and availability at the location associated with the store code.
  On the dealer's website, the customer then has the option to buy or reserve the product online and pick it up at the dealership nearby.


You must direct users to the dealership Google passes in the URL generated by the user’s click, even if you can self-detect users’ locations.


  Step 1: Review website requirements

  
    To be eligible for vehicle ads, your website must meet the following requirements:

    
      Display dealership name, dealership location, vehicle price, MSRP (if listing a new vehicle), VIN, mileage (if listing a used vehicle), and availability information on the landing page.

        
          Make sure the information (including dealership name, dealership location, vehicle price, VIN, and availability) is clearly visible upon loading the page, without requiring the user to scroll.
          When you first open the page, the dealership name and city can represent the dealership location if the full dealership address isn't present. In this case, the full dealership address should be displayed when the user clicks to view dealership location details.
        
      
      Display your vehicle availability prominently. Availability which reports the vehicle as “sold”, “out of stock”, “reserved”, “unavailable”, or “incoming unit” are not permitted.
      Display your vehicle price. The price displayed on your landing page should match the price submitted in your primary feed for the selected dealership location.
        
          You may provide the option to “Check today’s price”.
          Any disclaimers about the vehicle MSRP price must be clearly displayed on the landing page.
        
      
      (If listing a used vehicle) Display the vehicle mileage prominently on the landing page. Ensure mileage matches the mileage [mileage] attribute in your primary feed.
      Be able to display a landing page based on the codes from your Business Profile or store feed in order to populate location-specific pricing and availability. The availability displayed on your landing page must match the availability [availability] attribute submitted in your primary feed for the selected dealership location.
      Meet all local requirements around new or used vehicle disclosures on the landing page. Learn more about local legal requirements
    

    Landing page recommendations

    In addition to the landing page requirements above, we recommend the following:

    
      Link to additional fulfillment options (e.g., home delivery).
      Show dealership details (e.g., phone number, directions, and hours).
      Offer the ability to browse similar or related vehicles on your website.
      Provide information about your sales and promotions.
    
  



  Step 2. Update feed attributes

  
    Submit all required feed attributes as specified in Step 4a Create your primary feed.
  



  Step 3: Wait for Google to review your website

  
    Once you have updated your feed attributes and reviewed the landing page requirements, Google will review your landing pages for compliance.
  


Implementation guide


  Set up your accounts
  Enable the vehicle ads program
  Add your business information
  Create a primary feed
  Register and submit your feed
  Link your Business Profile and select your location group
  Create, register, and submit your store feed (Optional)
  Complete website policy review
  Link your Merchant Center and Google Ads accounts
  Enable vehicle ads in your Smart Shopping campaigns
  Enable vehicle ads in your Performance Max campaigns


Next: Link your Merchant Center and Google Ads accounts             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       