 Vehicle ads onboarding guideRegister and submit your feedNext: Link your Business Profile and select your location group


   This is step 4b of the vehicle ads onboarding guide.


This article describes how you submit your vehicle information to Google through your Merchant Center account.


  To submit vehicle data through API, click here.



  Note: All vehicle ads campaigns will be upgraded to Performance Max by September 2023.



Step 1: Register your feed

You must register a feed the first time you submit it to Merchant Center. You only need to complete this registration process once per feed. Learn more about registering your feed

There are 2 types of vehicle feeds:


  
    
      Feed
      Type
      Function
    
    
      Vehicle ads
      Primary
      Provides us a list of vehicles that you sell at your dealerships with attributes to describe them.
    
    
      Store feed
      Other feed
      
      Provides Google addresses of the dealership locations included in the primary feed.

      Note: This feed is only required when a merchant can not (or does not) have Business Profiles for their dealership locations.
      
    
  



  Your vehicle ads feed needs to be registered as a primary feed.


Step 2: Upload your feed

After you’ve registered your feed, you can upload your data to Merchant Center. We recommend creating a schedule for your upload so your data is sent automatically. Learn more about available upload methods

Submission frequency

Each of your data feeds for your vehicle ads should be uploaded as frequently as possible to ensure your information is fresh and accurate. We recommend the following minimum upload frequency for each feed:


  
    
      Feed
      Recommended minimum upload frequency
    
    
      Vehicle ads
      At least once a day, but can be submitted multiple times per day to update segments of your inventory. To be able to submit your vehicle ads feed multiple times per day, contact our support team using this form. Note that this data will expire after 14 days.
    
    
      Store feed
      At least once every 30 days
    
  



  Tip: You should also update your dealership information in your Business Profile whenever a new dealership opens, an existing dealership closes, a dealership changes hours, or anything else needs to be edited about a particular location.


Implementation guide


  Set up your accounts
  Enable the vehicle ads program
  Add your business information
  Create a primary feed
  Register and submit your feed
  Link your Business Profile and select your location group
  Create, register, and submit your store feed (Optional)
  Complete website policy review
  Link your Merchant Center and Google Ads accounts
  Enable vehicle ads in your Smart Shopping campaigns
  Enable vehicle ads in your Performance Max campaigns


Next: Link your Business Profile and select your location group             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       