 How to fix: Ineligible for online vehicle fulfillmentRemove the vehicle fulfillment [vehicle_fulfillment] attribute, or change the value to match the type of vehicle fulfillment for which your account is approved

For one or more of your products, you’ve submitted the value “online” for the option [option] sub-attribute of the vehicle fulfillment [vehicle_fulfillment] attribute. According to our information, you have not been approved for online fulfillment and therefore are not eligible to submit this value for this attribute. As a result, your offer has been disapproved.

To resolve this issue, you must be approved for online vehicle fulfillment. If you only intend to sell vehicles in store, you can resolve the issue by taking the following steps:


  Submit a value of “in_store” for the option [option] sub-attribute.
  Specify the relevant store codes in the store code [store_code] attribute.


If your account is not approved for vehicle ads, you either must not submit this offer or follow the steps to become a vehicle seller.

Instructions


  Step 1: See the affected products

  
    
  Sign in to your Merchant Center account.
  Select Products on the navigation menu, then click Diagnostics.
  Click the Item issues tab to see current issues affecting your products.
  Click the filter icon  to filter by destination and select Vehicle ads.


To download a list (.csv) of all affected products for all issues:


  Click the download button  next to the filter button , beneath the graph and above the list of issues.


To download a list (.csv) of all affected products for a particular issue:


  Find the issue under the “Issue” column, then click the download button  at the end of the row.


To see a list of up to 50 products with this particular issue:


  Find the issue under the “Issue” column, then click View examples in the “Affected items” column.


  



  Step 2: Remove or change the value for the vehicle fulfillment attribute

  
    
      
        Filter the downloaded report so that you only see products with:
          "Issue title" = Ineligible for online vehicle fulfillment.
        Search your product data for those products, and either remove the vehicle fulfillment [vehicle_fulfillment] attribute or change the value for the option [option] sub-attribute to reflect the fulfillment type for which your account is approved.
      
    
  



  Step 3: Resubmit your product data

  
    
  After you’ve updated your product data, resubmit it using one of these methods:
    
      Upload a feed
      Submit through the Content API
      Import content from an ecommerce platform
    
  
  Next, check that you’ve fixed the issue by making sure it’s no longer listed on the Diagnostics page.
    
    Keep in mind: It may take some time for your change to be reflected on the Diagnostics page.


  



  Step 4: Get approved as a local vehicle seller

  
    Vehicle ads are currently in a limited beta, and you must be approved separately for in-store and/or online fulfillment. If you are interested in participating, please contact your Google representative.
  


Related links


  Create a primary feed
  How to fix: Pending initial policy review for vehicle ads
  How to fix: Ineligible for ship-to-store vehicle fulfillment
  How to fix: Ineligible for in store vehicle fulfillment
  Vehicle ads troubleshooting form

             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       