 How to fix: New vehicle ineligible for online fulfillmentRemove the online value from the option [option] sub-attribute of the vehicle fulfillment attribute

For one or more of your online vehicle offers, you’ve submitted the condition [condition] attribute with a value of “new” for a region that does not yet support this type of offer. As a result, your offer has been disapproved in regions where new online offers are not yet supported.

To resolve this issue, remove the value “online” from the option [option] sub-attribute of the vehicle fulfillment [vehicle_fulfillment] attribute. Alternatively, you may change the value to “in_store” or “ship_to_store” provided you follow the requirements for those sub-attributes. To remove the value “online” from the vehicle fulfillment [vehicle_fulfillment] attribute, follow the instructions below.

Instructions


  Step 1: See the affected products

  
    
      
  Sign in to your Merchant Center account.
  Select Products on the navigation menu, then click Diagnostics.
  Click the Item issues tab to see current issues affecting your products.
  Click the filter icon  to filter by destination and select Vehicle ads.


To download a list (.csv) of all affected products for all issues:


  Click the download button  next to the filter button , beneath the graph and above the list of issues.


To download a list (.csv) of all affected products for a particular issue:


  Find the issue under the “Issue” column, then click the download button  at the end of the row.


To see a list of up to 50 products with this particular issue:


  Find the issue under the “Issue” column, then click View examples in the “Affected items” column.


    
  



  Step 2: Remove the online vehicle fulfillment attribute from the offer

  
    
      
        Filter the downloaded report so that you only see products with:
          "Issue title" = New vehicle ineligible for online fulfillment.
        Search your product data for those products and remove the value “online” from the option [option] sub-attribute of the vehicle fulfillment [vehicle_fulfillment] attribute for this offer.
      
    
  



  Step 3: Resubmit your product data

  
    
  After you’ve updated your product data, resubmit it using one of these methods:
    
      Upload a feed
      Submit through the Content API
      Import content from an ecommerce platform
    
  
  Next, check that you’ve fixed the issue by making sure it’s no longer listed on the Diagnostics page.
    
    Keep in mind: It may take some time for your change to be reflected on the Diagnostics page.


  


Related links


  How to fix: Ineligible for online vehicle fulfillment
  How to fix: Ineligible for in-store vehicle fulfillment
  How to fix: Ineligible for ship-to-store vehicle fulfillment

             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       