 How to fix: Vehicle image not validUse an image that matches the vehicle's description

In order to list vehicles for sale on Google, you must use the image link [image_link] attribute to redirect to an image that clearly represents the vehicle being sold. If the image URL for your vehicle redirects to a non-vehicle image or an image that doesn’t match the vehicle’s description, you may receive an error. Vehicle listings that contain invalid images will be disapproved.

In order to resolve the issue, add an image that matches the vehicle’s description.

Learn more about image requirements and guidelines for vehicle ads

Instructions

Step 1: See the affected products


  Sign in to your Merchant Center account.
  Select Products on the navigation menu, then click Diagnostics.
  Click the Item issues tab to see current issues affecting your products.
  Click the filter icon  to filter by destination and select Vehicle ads.


To download a list (.csv) of all affected products for all issues:


  Click the download button  next to the filter button , beneath the graph and above the list of issues.


To download a list (.csv) of all affected products for a particular issue:


  Find the issue under the “Issue” column, then click the download button  at the end of the row.


To see a list of up to 50 products with this particular issue:


  Find the issue under the “Issue” column, then click View examples in the “Affected items” column.



Step 2: Replace the product image with a valid image


  
    Filter the downloaded report so that you only find products with: "Issue title" = Vehicle image not valid
    Check your product data for those products (using the ID), and remove any images that don’t match the vehicle’s description.
    Add an image that matches the description of the vehicle, and use the image link [image_link] attribute to add a valid URL.
  


Step 3: Resubmit your product data


  After you’ve updated your product data, resubmit it using one of these methods:
    
      Upload a feed
      Submit through the Content API
      Import content from an ecommerce platform
    
  
  Next, check that you’ve fixed the issue by making sure it’s no longer listed on the Diagnostics page.
    
    Keep in mind: It may take some time for your change to be reflected on the Diagnostics page.



Related links


  About item disapprovals for policy violations
  Vehicle ads overview
  Vehicle ads policies
  Vehicle ads troubleshooting form

             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       