 Edit product details in Merchant Center

Once you’ve uploaded your product details in Merchant Center, you can make changes to them at a later time directly in Merchant Center. This article walks you through how to edit product features, descriptions, and other attributes.

Instructions

To edit product details in Merchant Center:


  Sign in to your Merchant Center account.
  Select Products from the navigation menu, then click All products.
  Select the product you want to edit.
  Click the pencil icon  to edit the product.
  Edit the attributes values you wish to change.
  Click Save. Google will review your product edits. When the edits are approved, your product will be updated.


Note: Edits are permanent. They also override any updates made directly in your feed and may take several minutes to process. However, automatic item updates to a product’s price or availability take precedence over any edits made in Merchant Center. For offers created by automated feeds, the value of the link [link] attribute cannot be edited.

To undo edits made in Merchant Center:


  Sign in to your Merchant Center account.
  Select Products from the navigation menu, then click All products.
  Select the product you want to edit.
  Click the pencil icon  to edit the product.
  Click the revert icon  next to the edited attribute. The value will then show the attribute value in the latest feed upload.
  Click Save.


How item level edits made in Merchant Center interact with feed rules

A manual edit made to an attribute in the Merchant Center will always override a feed rule. For example, if for item A the value of attribute X is “1” in the feed and modified to “2” by a feed rule, but there’s also a manual edit changing the value to “3”, then the value of the attribute will be “3”.

Note that if attribute X of item A is used in feed rules that affect another item (item B), then the value of X seen by the feed rules will also be “3”.


  Note: Custom attributes cannot be edited.



Related links


  Add products directly in Merchant Center
  About feeds
  Build your product data
  Create a feed

             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       