 How to fix: Mileage too high for new vehicleSet the condition [condition] attribute for the automobile offer to “used”

For one or more of your vehicle offers, you’ve included an automobile with the condition [condition] attribute set to “new” and the mileage [mileage] attribute set to 200 units (km or miles) or greater. This does not follow the standards for vehicle ads. As a result, your offer has been disapproved.

To resolve this issue, change the value of the condition [condition] attribute to “used” or remove this offer from your product data. If your account is not approved for vehicle ads, don’t submit this offer or follow the steps to become a vehicle seller.

Instructions


  Step 1: See the affected products

  
  Sign in to your Merchant Center account.
  Select Products on the navigation menu, then click Diagnostics.
  Click the Item issues tab to see current issues affecting your products.
  Click the filter icon  to filter by destination and select Vehicle ads.


To download a list (.csv) of all affected products for all issues:


  Click the download button  next to the filter button , beneath the graph and above the list of issues.


To download a list (.csv) of all affected products for a particular issue:


  Find the issue under the “Issue” column, then click the download button  at the end of the row.


To see a list of up to 50 products with this particular issue:


  Find the issue under the “Issue” column, then click View examples in the “Affected items” column.





  Step 2: Remove or change the value for the condition attribute

  
    
      
        Filter the downloaded report so that you only see products with:
          “Issue title” = Mileage too high for new vehicle.
        Search your product data for those products, and either remove the offer or change the value for the condition [condition] sub-attribute to “used”.
      
    
  



  Step 3: Resubmit your product data

  
  After you’ve updated your product data, resubmit it using one of these methods:
    
      Upload a feed
      Submit through the Content API
      Import content from an ecommerce platform
    
  
  Next, check that you’ve fixed the issue by making sure it’s no longer listed on the Diagnostics page.
    
    Keep in mind: It may take some time for your change to be reflected on the Diagnostics page.




Related links


  Create a primary feed
  How to fix: Pending initial policy review for vehicle ads
  Vehicle ads troubleshooting form

             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       