 Get started with Merchant Center


  If you’re looking for information about the classic Merchant Center experience, click here. 



  
    Why might Merchant Center be a good fit for you?

    Merchant Center helps millions of people discover, explore, and buy your products. With its family of features and deep reporting tools, it brings you different ways to get the right products to the right customers. It also intelligently builds an onboarding experience tailored to your account. Once you’re signed in, you’ll see suggested next steps for you and show you tasks that have already been completed.
  





Get started

Signing up for Merchant Center takes just a few steps.


  You'll tell us about your business and where you sell your products, whether online, or in a physical store or both. Your business profile details are your store name, your business hours, your services. Your business information will be applied across the different features and tools that you use in Merchant Center. You can always edit it later. 
  You'll select the checkout options that apply to your business. For example, do you sell online, in a local store, or both? You can choose more than one, and change them later in your Merchant Center account if you need to.
  You'll need to provide and verify a valid phone number. This is so we can verify that you're the right contact for your business. We won't use this for any other reason, and this won't be shown to customers. 
  You'll help us make sure we have the right information about your products. There are a few different options for getting your information from your website to Merchant Center. We'll help you choose the one that's right for you. 
  You'll let us know if you work with any third-party platforms. You might work with a third-party platform to show, promote, or sell your products across Google. For example, if you use Shopify, you can link your Shopify account to your Merchant Center account. This will automatically sync your Shopify products in Merchant Center for you. You can always modify these products or add more products in Merchant Center via the Product section.


             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       