 Track your product performance in Merchant Center

On this page


  To view your product performance in Merchant Center
  Which product performance metrics are available
  How to understand your performance metrics



To view your product performance in Merchant Center


  Your online store must be confirmed
  You must have at least one approved product to start gathering traffic


Do you also have a physical store? Learn how to track your store's Business Profile performance in Merchant Center


Which product performance metrics are available

With Merchant Center performance reporting you can view key metrics on how your products, brands, and more are trending over time. Understanding this information can help you make decisions and set the strategy for your business.


  
    Impressions

    Total count of how many times your products were shown on Google.

    
      If your products show zero impressions, you should verify that the products are approved and wait a few days for impressions to show up.
    

    Clicks

    Total count of clicks on your products on Google that led to visits to your online store.

    
      A “visit” is reported if the click on your product listing leads to a desktop landing page, mobile landing page, or an app.
    

    Click-through rate (CTR)

    The number of clicks that your product receives, divided by the number of times it’s shown: clicks ÷ impressions = CTR. This illustrates how often clicks on your products led to visits to your online store. For example, if you had 5 clicks and 100 impressions, then your CTR would be 5%.
  




  
    Keep in mind

    
      These metrics provide information for products shown with and without ads.
      Sudden increases or decreases in performance metrics can be the result of multiple reasons, such as seasonality or a new ads campaign; analyzing your data can help you understand your audience behavior.
    
  



How to understand your performance metrics

Performance graph

This allows you to view the progress of your performance metrics over time.


  Use the date selector to view the data for longer or shorter periods of time.
  A shorter time period can be used to focus on performance at a specific time, for example if you run a promotion or during a holiday season.
  A longer time period can give you indication of cyclical trends among your potential customers.


Product, brand, and category performance cards

These cards show your popular-now, trending up, and trending down products, brands, and categories. The top 7 are displayed by default.


  When a product is popular-now or trending up and needs attention, make any required fixes to get better chances of continuous performance.
  When a product is one of your popular-now products, you could choose to ensure you always have it in stock.
  Use View all to expand the ranking to all the items in product, brand or category. This will open a report containing clicks, impressions, and CTR. To analyze the data at your own pace, you can download the report by clicking on the dedicated download icon.
  Via the product card, when you click on the product title to view additional details, you can also find what needs attention if applicable, and should be fixed.

             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       