 I need help adding stores to Merchant Center

On this page


  Get started
  What to expect
  Frequently asked questions



Get started

Manage your stores

Adding your store links your Merchant Center and Business Profile accounts. After that, you can remove a store at any time. 


  Add a store (connect your accounts)

  
    
      Click the business icon on the left menu, then click Stores
      Click Add Store
      Under “Add your store,” find the stores you want to add to your Merchant Center account 
      Click Add
    
  



  Remove a store

  
    
      In Merchant Center, click the business icon , then click the Stores tab.
      Find the store you want to remove, and select the checkbox on the left.
      At the top, select Remove and then confirm Remove selected store by clicking Remove.
    
  



Edit store information

Once you've linked Merchant Center and Google Ads accounts, you can edit information about your local stores from Merchant Center.


  Edit business information

  
    
      In your Merchant Center account, click the business icon, then click the Stores tab.
      Find the store you want to edit, and click the Edit business information icon.
      Edit any of the information about your business, including phone number, hours, and so on.
    
  

  
    Add photos

    
      
        
          In Merchant Center, click the business icon, then click the Stores tab.
          Find the store you want to edit, and click the Add photo icon
          Upload photos or videos to add
          When prompted, click Select.
        
      
    
  



  Add an update

  
    
      
        In Merchant Center, click the business icon, then click the Stores tab.
        Find the store you want to add an update to, and click the Add update icon
        Add an update by filling in the description and any relevant photos
        When prompted, click Publish.
      
    
  

  
  What to expect 


When you connect your Business Profile to Merchant Center, some of your data will be shared between the two.

Data shared from Merchant Center


  Details about your Merchant Center account, such as name and account ID
  Data about your products, including titles, descriptions, images, and others shown on Google Search and Maps 


Data shared from Business Profile


  Details related to your store’s Business Profile, such as your store name, address and performance




Frequently asked questions


  Can multiple stores be added to a Merchant Center?

  
    Yes, you can add multiple stores to a Merchant Center account.
  



  Can a store be added to multiple Merchant Center accounts?

  
    No. A store can be added to one Merchant Center account. If you want to change which Merchant Center account a store is connected to, you'll need to remove it from the existing Merchant Center account first, and then you'll be able to add it to the other one.
  

  
    Who can edit store information?

    
      
        You have to be an owner or a manager on the store’s Business Profile to be able to edit store information.
      
    
  

             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       