 Get to know your way around Merchant Center


  
    If you’re looking for information about how to navigate in the classic Merchant Center experience, click here. 
  



 


  
    
       Home
      The "Home" section is your go to place for an overview of everything in Merchant Center. You’ll see your business information, a snapshot of your product status, your performance, tasks you may need to undertake and if you’re new, the steps to set-up your account.
    
    
      
      

      Products
      
      
      The "Products" section is where you’ll go to add or review any of the information required to show your products on Google. This includes details about the products themselves, your shipping details, how sales tax is applied to products and more.

      This is also where you’ll see if your products are approved or if they need attention. You can edit your products, add more and improve your product discoverability by fixing errors.
      
    
    
      
      

      Your business
      
      
      In the “Your business” section, you’ll be able to manage your business information. For example, you can edit your business details such as address or phone number, you can update your online store URL claim, and you can see and manage your connections with other Google apps like Google Ads and other third-party apps.

      If you have stores, you can also add and edit your store information in this section.

      From here, you can also manage who has access to your Merchant Center and what they can do, as well as who receives email about your Merchant Center activity.
      
    
    
      
      

      Ad campaigns
      
      
      Visit the “Ad campaigns” section to create and manage your ad campaigns. To do this, you’ll just need to link Merchant Center and Google Ads from the “Integrations” tab of the “Your business” section.
      
    
    
      
      

      Performance
      
      
      In the “Performance” section, you’ll find a snapshot of how your products are doing, with information like clicks, impressions, and more. This section has lots of tools that will help you find the right data you’re looking for - like filters and different views for each report.
      
    
    
      
      

      Notifications
      
      
      The “notifications” section will show you anything that needs your attention, like setup and policy issues, educational content, recommendations, and more.
      
    
  

             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       