 Add business identity attributes to Merchant Center

If you’re looking for information about sharing your business identity attributes in the classic Merchant Center experience, click here. 


Use the business identity attributes in Merchant Center to tell customers about the identity of your business on the "Shopping" tab.

In the “Your business” section of Merchant Center, you can choose:


  Black-owned
  Latino-owned
  Veteran-owned
  Women-owned


Self-identification is optional, and is currently only available to retailers based in the United States.


On this page


  How it works
  Instructions
  Add your business country
  Reporting abuse


How it works

If you select a business identity attribute, customers will notice a small icon signifying that your business identifies as such on your product description pages (PDP) on the "Shopping" tab. Customers are also able to filter for businesses using the identity attributes.

In addition, if you opt into “Include my business in promotions for..." your selected identity attributes, your business and products may also be featured on Google pages that highlight businesses with specific identity attributes.

You need to be eligible to show free listings in order for the icon to show on your product description pages. To be eligible for free listings, follow the policies for both free listings, and ads. Eligibility also depends on your account status and the quality of the data you provide.


Instructions


  
    
      
      In your Merchant Center account, click the Your business  section in the side menu, and then click the Business details tab.
    
    
      
      On the “Business details” card, click Edit business details.
    
    
      
      Scroll down to the “Business identity attributes” section.
    
    
      
      Click the toggle button next to the appropriate identity attribute to turn it on or off.
    
    
      
      If you'd like your business and products to potentially appear on pages featuring the selected identity attributes,. check the box next to “Include my business in promotions for...”
    
  



  
    Remember: When you toggle this business attribute on, you're publicly stating that someone of the identity you’ve selected owns your business.

    If you don’t select this option, your business will still be identified with the selected identity attributes on the product description pages on the "Shopping" tab.
  


You can toggle your business identity attributes, and opt in and out of promotions involving a business identity attribute, at any time. Keep in mind that it can take some time for any changes you make to be reflected on your product description pages on the "Shopping" tab.


Need to add your business country?

Only US-based retailers who have a Merchant Center account with a business country are currently able to use this feature. You can confirm if your account has a business country set by navigating to “Your Business” section in Merchant Center, and checking your business details. The feature will become available to all US-based retailers in the coming months. To add a business country in your account settings:


  
    
      
      Open the Merchant Center contact form.
    
    
      
      In the “Tell us what you need help with” field, write “Change business country to US”.
    
    
      
      Click Next.
    
    
      
      In the “Confirm issue” section, select “Other”.
    
    
      
      Scroll down, and click Next step.
    
    
      
      Choose your contact option, and fill out your details.
    
    
      
      Click Submit.
    
  




  
    Reporting abuse

    Google doesn't tolerate abuse or harassment of our retailer partners. If we detect that a retailer who has selected one of the business identity attributes is receiving harassing user reviews or other mistreatment through Google’s platform as a result of their self-identification, our abuse teams will swiftly address the issue.

    You can report negative or abusive reviews that you believe you’ve received as a result of identifying your business as owned by someone of the identity you’ve selected. Google will investigate each report and strive to take appropriate action.

    To report a store or product review, click the 3-dot menu in the top right corner of the review, and then click "Report". Fill out the report and submit it.
  

             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       