 How to fix: Missing value for price

Add price using the all in price [vehicle_all_in_price] attribute

For one or more of your product offers, you’ve submitted the condition [condition] attribute with the value “new”, indicating that the vehicle is new.

When you create a new vehicle offer in Quebec, CA, you must include the product’s all-in price via the all-in price [vehicle_all_in_price] attribute. The value for this attribute should be the all-in price of the vehicle, including tax, title, and any other vehicle fees. New vehicle offers won’t work properly in the Quebec region until the all-in price [vehicle_all_in_price] attribute is uploaded. Learn more about the vehicle ads feed specifications

Instructions


  Step 1: See the affected products

  
    
  Sign in to your Merchant Center account.
  Select Products on the navigation menu, then click Diagnostics.
  Click the Item issues tab to see current issues affecting your products.
  Click the filter icon  to filter by destination and select Vehicle ads.


To download a list (.csv) of all affected products for all issues:


  Click the download button  next to the filter button , beneath the graph and above the list of issues.


To download a list (.csv) of all affected products for a particular issue:


  Find the issue under the “Issue” column, then click the download button  at the end of the row.


To see a list of up to 50 products with this particular issue:


  Find the issue under the “Issue” column, then click View examples in the “Affected items” column.


  



  Step 2: Add the vehicle all in price attribute

  
    
      
        Filter the downloaded report so that you only see products with:
          "Issue title" = Missing value for price
        Search your product data for those products, and add the all in price [vehicle_all_in_price] attribute to those products to meet this requirement.
      
    
  



  Step 3: Resubmit your product data

  
    
  After you’ve updated your product data, resubmit it using one of these methods:
    
      Upload a feed
      Submit through the Content API
      Import content from an ecommerce platform
    
  
  Next, check that you’ve fixed the issue by making sure it’s no longer listed on the Diagnostics page.
    
    Keep in mind: It may take some time for your change to be reflected on the Diagnostics page.


  



  Step 4: Get approved as a local vehicle seller

  
    Vehicle ads are currently in a limited beta, and you must be approved separately for in-store and/or online fulfillment. If you are interested in participating, please contact your Google representative.
  

             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       