 View ad campaigns performance in Merchant Center


  If you’re looking for information about viewing ad campaigns performance in the classic Merchant Center experience, click here.



In your Merchant Center account, you can track the results of your Performance Max campaigns. To view the results, navigate to “Ad campaigns” from the left navigation menu and select the “Campaign management" tab. You can view the overall performance of all your campaigns at the top of the page and the performance of individual campaigns below that.


  Note: The performance graph isn’t available if your Merchant Center account is linked to multiple Google Ads accounts.


Understanding your metrics

You may notice different results reported for your campaigns based on whether or not you’ve set up conversion tracking in your Google Ads account.

Without conversion tracking

These are the metrics available without conversion tracking:


  Ad clicks: The number of times your ad was clicked on.
  Ad impressions: How often your ad was shown to customers.
  Click-through rate (CTR): A ratio showing how often your ad led to visits to your website after it appeared on Google channels. It is calculated by dividing the number of clicks on your ad by the number of impressions.
  Cost: The combined total cost of your campaign.


With conversion tracking

These are the metrics available with conversion tracking (if your campaigns recorded at least one conversion):


  Ad clicks: The number of times your ad was clicked on.
  Ad conversions: The number of times clicks on your ad led to a valuable action for your business (such as an online purchase).
    
      You define the action that you want to track when you set up conversion tracking in Google Ads.
    
  
  Cost: The combined total cost of your campaign.
  Cost per conversion: The average cost of each conversion.
    
      The cost per conversion is calculated by dividing the total cost of your campaign by the number of conversions.
    
  


Additional reporting functionalities

You can view the performance of your ads in detail on the "Performance" page.

The dashboard allows you to segment your metrics by product, brand, category, or region. This information can help you make decisions on your ads campaigns and product portfolio.

To view your ads performance:


  Click Performance in the left navigation menu.
  Select Clicks, Impressions, or CTR depending on the metric you want to track.
    
      You can view the performance of both free listings and ads in the form of a line graph or a bar graph.
    
  
  Select the filter icon  to track the performance over a time period or for a specific brand or category.


You can view the full list of products, brands, and categories, and which of them are trending up or down. You can also filter the data and download it in a CSV format.


  Important: There may be differences between the metrics displayed on the "Campaign management" tab under "Ad campaigns" and on the "Performance" page. The "Performance" page only includes Shopping ads and free listings, while the "Campaign management" tab also includes other ad formats supported by Performance Max campaigns (for example, ads served on YouTube). Additionally, the "Campaign management" tab relies on Google Ads tracking while the "Performance" page relies on Google Analytics. Google Ads calculates data differently than Google Analytics, so you’ll see some differences in metrics even when the underlying data is the same. Learn more about potential data discrepancies


You can access even more advanced reporting functionalities in Google Ads. After linking your Merchant Center and Google Ads accounts, you'll be able to view your campaign reporting in both accounts.

Related links


  Track your product performance in Merchant Center
  Create a Performance Max campaign in Merchant Center

             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       