 How to fix: Missing product availabilityAdd the availability for your product in your inventory data

One or more of your products are missing the availability status in the local inventory feed. This error usually happens because the availability [availability] attribute is not set.

To resolve this issue, you must provide a valid value for the availability [availability] attribute for your products. This will tell your customers about the availability of your products in each of your stores.

If the availability is set to preorder or backorder, also provide the availability date [availability_date] attribute (with a value of up to 1 year in the future).

Instructions

Step 1: See the affected products


  Sign in to your Merchant Center account.
  Select Products on the navigation menu, then click Diagnostics.
  Click the Item issues tab to see current issues affecting your products.


To download a list (.csv) of all affected products for all issues:


  Click the download button  next to the filter button , beneath the graph and above the list of issues.


To download a list (.csv) of all affected products for a particular issue:


  Find the issue under the “Issue” column, then click the download button  at the end of the row.


To see a list of up to 50 products with this particular issue:


  Find the issue under the “Issue” column, then click View examples in the “Affected items” column.



Step 2: Add missing values


  
    Filter the download report so that you can only see products with:
      “Issue title” = Missing product availability
    Add valid values for any required group attributes.
  


Step 3: Resubmit your product data


  After you’ve updated your product data, resubmit it using one of these methods:
    
      Upload a feed
      Submit through the Content API
      Import content from an ecommerce platform
    
  
  Next, check that you’ve fixed the issue by making sure it’s no longer listed on the Diagnostics page.
    
    Keep in mind: It may take some time for your change to be reflected on the Diagnostics page.


             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       