 How to fix: Generic landing pageUse a URL that sends users to a vehicle-specific landing page

One or more URLs that you’ve submitted for your product’s landing page is invalid. Add a valid URL for the product that directs the user to a vehicle-specific page. Learn more about vehicle ads website requirements.

Instructions


  Step 1: See the affected products

  
    
  Sign in to your Merchant Center account.
  Select Products on the navigation menu, then click Diagnostics.
  Click the Item issues tab to see current issues affecting your products.
  Click the filter icon  to filter by destination and select Vehicle ads.


To download a list (.csv) of all affected products for all issues:


  Click the download button  next to the filter button , beneath the graph and above the list of issues.


To download a list (.csv) of all affected products for a particular issue:


  Find the issue under the “Issue” column, then click the download button  at the end of the row.


To see a list of up to 50 products with this particular issue:


  Find the issue under the “Issue” column, then click View examples in the “Affected items” column.


  



  Step 2: Use a URL that sends users to a product-specific landing page

  
    
      
        Filter the downloaded report so that you only see products with:
          "Issue title" = Generic landing page.
        Add a valid URL for the product that directs the user to a vehicle-specific page.
      
    
  



  Step 3: Resubmit your product data

  
    
  After you’ve updated your product data, resubmit it using one of these methods:
    
      Upload a feed
      Submit through the Content API
      Import content from an ecommerce platform
    
  
  Next, check that you’ve fixed the issue by making sure it’s no longer listed on the Diagnostics page.
    
    Keep in mind: It may take some time for your change to be reflected on the Diagnostics page.


  

             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       