 How to fix: Invalid UTF-8 encodingUse proper UTF-8 encoding for text and avoid double encodingMerchant Center supports UTF-8, UTF-16, Latin-1, and ASCII. If you're unsure of your file's encoding, please select the Autodetect option.

If you're using Notepad to save your file, please select Save As, and then select ANSI or UTF-8 in the Encoding options. If your file isn't encoded in either of these types, your feed won't be processed.

Important: If you're submitting an XML file that uses either Latin-1 or UTF-16 encoding, please make sure you specify this information in your XML file. To do this, please change the first line of your data feed from <?xml version=" 1.0"?> to:


  For Latin-1: <?xml version="1.0" encoding="ISO-8859-1"?>
  For UTF-16: <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-16"?>


Instructions



Step 1: See the affected products 

  
    
  Sign in to your Merchant Center account.
  Select Products on the navigation menu, then click Diagnostics.
  Click the Item issues tab to see current issues affecting your products.


To download a list (.csv) of all affected products for all issues:


  Click the download button  next to the filter button , beneath the graph and above the list of issues.


To download a list (.csv) of all affected products for a particular issue:


  Find the issue under the “Issue” column, then click the download button  at the end of the row.


To see a list of up to 50 products with this particular issue:


  Find the issue under the “Issue” column, then click View examples in the “Affected items” column.



     
  




Step 2: Use valid UTF-8 encoding

  
    
      Filter the downloaded report so that you only see products with:
        “Issue title” = Invalid UTF-8 encoding
      Check your product data for those products (using the ID), and make sure that the essential attributes for each item match the UTF-8 encoding.
    
  


Step 3. Resubmit your product data

  
    
  After you’ve updated your product data, resubmit it using one of these methods:
    
      Upload a feed
      Submit through the Content API
      Import content from an ecommerce platform
    
  
  Next, check that you’ve fixed the issue by making sure it’s no longer listed on the Diagnostics page.
    
    Keep in mind: It may take some time for your change to be reflected on the Diagnostics page.


  

             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       