 File formats for product data


  If you’re looking for information about file formats for product data in Merchant Center Next, click here. 


After you’ve created a feed, you’ll add your product data to it by uploading a data feed. We currently support data feeds in these formats:
Text (spreadsheet) or tab delimited


  

  We recommend using a spreadsheet program such as Microsoft Excel or Google Sheets to create your spreadsheet. If you’re using Google Sheets, you can download your file and then upload it directly to Merchant Center.

  Learn how to create and upload a tab delimited product data feed

  Advantages:

  
    Simple to create and edit if you have a spreadsheet program
    Easier to view multiple products
  

  Disadvantages:

  
    Easier to make formatting mistakes
  

  An example using some of the required attributes would look like this:

  
    
      
        
        ID
          [id]
        
        
        Title
          [title]
        
        
        Description
          [description]
        
        
        Price
          [price]
        
        
        Condition
          [condition]
        
        
        Link
          [link]
        
      
      
        123-uk
        Yellow Bear
        A fuzzy, cuddly teddy bear
        12
        new
        http://www.example.com
      
    
  

XML


  

  We support extended versions of RSS 2.0 and Atom 1.0. You can create and edit these files using any text editor, such as Notepad or SimpleText. Like HTML, XML uses tags to define blocks of content. Information about your products is enclosed within these tags, which are indicated by angle brackets.

  Advantages:

  
    Your site may already generate an XML file of your content
    Including multiple values for an attribute is easier
  

  Disadvantages:

  
    May require more tech-savviness
    Difficult to see many products at once
  

  For example files click the appropriate XML format and download it. RSS 2.0 or Atom 1.


When creating your data feed, remember to save your file in one of the supported file types with the appropriate filename extension:



Note: XML is now officially supported for inventory feeds.

If you are scheduling your data feed, you can ensure that the feed URL directly points to your feed file. If it points to your website instead, your product information will be fetched in a HTML format which will result in a feed failure. The URL must begin with either http://, https:// or sftp://. If your file requires a username and password to access, enter the appropriate login information to allow Google to access your file.


             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       