 Edit a promotion or change promotion status

This article describes different ways you can edit or end a promotion.

You can update the status of your promotions in the Promotions dashboard of your Merchant Center account. It’s important to understand how to update promotions to ensure the information that appears is accurate.

On this page


  Edit an “Approved” promotion
  Edit an “Under review” or "Disapproved" promotion
  End a promotion


Instructions

Edit an "Approved" promotion

Once a promotion has been approved, it is still possible to edit most of that promotion's information using promotion builder. Depending on the information you edit, re-approval may be required.

To edit an approved promotion, from the Promotions dashboard in your Merchant Center account:


  Select the promotion you’d like to edit.
  Update the promotion as needed.
  Save the promotion.

Not all promotion attributes are editable after a promotion has been approved. Here are the four categories into which they’re classified:


  Editable with additional reviews: Changes to these attributes will trigger a new review process.
  Editable without additional reviews, but with restrictions: Changing these attributes will not reset the review status, but some restrictions apply.
  Editable without additional reviews: Changes to these attributes will not be reviewed by Google.
  Non-editable: You are not able to change these attributes once a promotion has been approved.


Expand the categories below to see how each attribute is classified when editing an approved promotion:


  Editable with additional reviews

  
    
      
        This is the default category and contains any attribute not listed in one of the other categories below.
      
    
  



  Editable without additional reviews, but with restrictions

  
    
      End time: Any adjustment must keep the total promotion duration less than 180 days.
    
  



  Editable without additional reviews

  
    
      Destination: Can be removed
    
  



  Non-editable

  
    
      
        Country
        Currency
        Destination: Can't be added
        Language
        Merchant ID
        Promotion ID
        Start time
      
    
  



  Note: Approved promotions cannot be edited using a promotions feed. To edit an approved promotion using a promotions feed, create a new promotion with a new promotion ID [promotion_id] and resubmit your feed. Next, end the previous promotion you wanted to edit. If your promotion is SKU specific you will need to re-map the new promotion ID [promotion_id] to the appropriate products.


Edit an “Under review” or "Disapproved" promotion

Promotions either under review or rejected for policy review can still be edited. Any promotion that is not currently editable will have a lock icon that appears when you hover your cursor over the title. To change or update an editable promotion:


  Select the promotion you’d like to edit.
  Update the promotion with the required information or applicable updates.
  After updating, re-submit the promotion through the promotion builder with the same promotion ID [promotion_id] and the corrected information. The review process for the promotion will begin again.


You can also edit the promotion by uploading an updated promotions feed with the required changes. This will also restart the review process.

If your promotion is disapproved during the policy review, the disapproval details will be included in a summary email that is sent to you daily.

End a promotion

You can end a promotion any time, but you should only do this if you would like to terminate a live promotion. Once you have ended a promotion, it can't be restarted.

To end a promotion, follow these steps:


  In your Merchant Center account, go to Marketing.
  Then, click Promotions.
  Check the box next to the promotion you want to end.
  Click End promotions at the top of the dashboard.


You may also end specific promotions from the promotion description page. To end a promotion from the description page, scroll to the bottom of the page and select End Promotion.

Note: It may take a few hours after you end a promotion before it's removed.

RETURN TO PROMOTIONS HOME

             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       