 How to fix: Mismatched value (page crawl): (price [price])Update your product's price in your product data to match the price on your landing page

Some of the values you’ve provided for the price [price] attribute in your product data differed from the information on your website. The value submitted for the price [price] attribute must be the same as the price on your landing page and must be submitted in the appropriate currency for the country you're targeting. Affected products have been disapproved until you update them with the correct information. Too many products with incorrect prices can lead to account suspension.

How page crawling works

Googlebot routinely crawls your website landing pages and compares the price [price] attribute in your data feed with the prices on your landing page or in your structured data markup (if implemented). This ensures quality and price consistency so your customers can have a better experience. When a mismatch is found between your price on the landing page and price [price] in the data feed, the product with the mismatch may be disapproved.

Googlebot automatically crawls disapproved products over the next few hours or days to recheck the price. If the price on your landing page matches with the price [price] attribute in your data feed, the products will be re-approved.

Note: Page crawling is subject to the server domain’s capacity. If the domain is at maximum capacity, page crawling may take longer as Google doesn’t increase page crawling rates to avoid crawl latency on your website.

Common causes for mismatched prices

A common cause for mismatched prices is the time difference between updates on your website and updates of your data in Merchant Center. Google recommends that you schedule feed uploads or updates via the Content API immediately after the products have been updated on your website.

Additionally, you may want to verify that you have correctly implemented the structured data markup for price [price] on your product landing pages. You can use the rich results tool to test your landing pages.

The price mismatch between your landing page and your product data was discovered and reported at a specific date and time (see notification timestamp). It’s possible that this data may have been updated and reapproved in the meantime. You can find the current approval status of a product in the “Status” column on the All products page (under Products) or in the Status section in the individual product page in Merchant Center.

If you're using the sale price [sale_price] attribute, make sure that the time period in which the sale is active is specified correctly with the sale price effective date [sale_price_effective_date] attribute and that the timezone is correct. When a sale is active, the sale price is shown as the current price in your Shopping ads, free listings, local inventory ads, and free local listings.

If you have a minimum order quantity or items are sold in bulk quantities, the total price for the minimum number of items sold must be submitted. Ensure that the price provided via the price attribute in your product data matches the one displayed on the corresponding product landing page.

You can manage automatic item updates to help keep the prices in your ads and listings up-to-date with the prices on your landing page. This feature is turned on by default. Learn more about managing automatic item updates

Instructions


  Step 1: See the affected products

  
  Sign in to your Merchant Center account.
  Select Products on the navigation menu, then click Diagnostics.
  Click the Item issues tab to see current issues affecting your products.


To download a list (.csv) of all affected products for all issues:


  Click the download button  next to the filter button , beneath the graph and above the list of issues.


To download a list (.csv) of all affected products for a particular issue:


  Find the issue under the “Issue” column, then click the download button  at the end of the row.


To see a list of up to 50 products with this particular issue:


  Find the issue under the “Issue” column, then click View examples in the “Affected items” column.





  Step 2: Submit the same values from your landing page for the price, sale price and sale price effective date attributes

  
    
      Filter the downloaded report so that you only see products with:
        “Issue title” = Mismatched (page crawl): (price [price])
      Search your product data for those products (using the ID), and make sure that each item has the same values for price [price] (or sale price [sale_price] and sale price effective date [sale_price_effective_date]) as those listed on your site and in its structured data.
        
          Googlebot crawls data present in the HTML returned from the web server. If data on your website is passed dynamically with JavaScript after the page is loaded, this will trigger the error. Prices reflected in the HTML need to match exactly the prices uploaded in Merchant Center.
        
      
    

    Note: Googlebot crawls the disapproved product over the next few hours or days. If the price matches, the disapproved product is approved.
  



  Step 3: Resubmit your product data

  
  After you’ve updated your product data, resubmit it using one of these methods:
    
      Upload a feed
      Submit through the Content API
      Import content from an ecommerce platform
    
  
  Next, check that you’ve fixed the issue by making sure it’s no longer listed on the Diagnostics page.
    
    Keep in mind: It may take some time for your change to be reflected on the Diagnostics page.




Related links


  Price [price]
  Sale price [sale_price]
  Sale price effective date [sale_price_effective_date]
  About automatic item updates
  Supported structured data attributes and values
  schema.org: price property
  schema.org: priceCurrency property

             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       