 Adult-oriented content

Our policy


  
    
      
        
        
          Google restricts Shopping ads for the following types of adult-oriented content:

          
            adult merchandise
            sexually suggestive content
            images containing exposed skin and nudity
          

          Restrictions for these Shopping ads include, but are not limited to, preventing ads from serving on Search or serving to minors. 

          When listing adult content you may not do any of the following:

          
            violate applicable laws or regulations for any location that you target
            target minors
            list sexually explicit content
            list content with underage or non-consensual sexual themes, including child sexual abuse content
            list services that may be interpreted as providing sexual acts in exchange for compensation
          
        
        
      
    
  


Refer to the product data specification for specific requirements on how to submit these products using the adult [adult] attribute, or by adjusting account level settings to ensure these products are shown to an appropriate audience.

Prohibited Adult Content


  
    
      
      Sexually explicit content
      
    
  



  
  
     Text, image, audio, or video of graphic sexual acts intended to arouse

    
      Examples: Graphic depictions of sexual acts in progress, including hardcore pornography, any type of genital, anal, or oral sexual activity; graphic depictions of masturbation or genital arousal and language explicitly referencing arousal, masturbation, cartoon porn, or hentai
    
  
  



  
    
      
      Non-consensual sexual content
      
    
  




   Content promoting underage, non-consensual or other illegal sexual themes, whether simulated or real

  
    Examples: Rape, incest, bestiality, necrophilia; lolita or teen-themed pornography
  




  
    
      
      Child sexual abuse imagery
      
    
  



 Content promoting the sexual exploitation of minors
  
    Examples: Child sexual abuse imagery or other content
  



Restricted adult content


  
    
      
      Adult merchandise
      
    
  




   Promotion or sale of merchandise intended to enhance sexual activity

  
    Examples: Sex toys
  




  
    
      
      Sexually suggestive content
      
    
  




   Content containing sexually suggestive text, images, audio, or video

  
    Examples: Sexually suggestive language; non-sexually explicit erotic magazines, erotic DVDs, sexually suggestive lingerie promotions
  




  
    
      
      Nudity
      
    
  




   People or representations of people that display sexual body parts

  
    Examples: Visible genitalia, nipples, or bare buttocks
  



Country-specific requirements

In addition to the requirements above, there may be further restrictions based on your target country. See additional country-specific requirements you must meet below.


  
    
      Countries
      Details
    
  
  
    
      
      Algeria
        Bahrain
        Belarus
        Ecuador
        Egypt
        Georgia
        Hong Kong
        India
        Indonesia
        Jordan
        Kazakhstan
        Kuwait
        Lebanon
        Malaysia
        Morocco
        Myanmar (Burma)
        Oman
        Peru
        Philippines
        Russia
        Saudi Arabia
        Singapore
        South Korea
        Thailand
        Tunisia
        Turkey
        Ukraine
        United Arab Emirates
        Vietnam
      
       Not allowed
      In these countries, Google doesn't allow the promotion of adult-oriented content, including nudity.
    
    
      Germany
       Allowed with limitations
      In Germany, Google doesn’t allow adult-oriented content that displays sexualized nudity of human, digital, or otherwise artificially generated models (this includes cartoons, drawings, paintings, sculptures and anime). Sex toys must not be promoted in sexualized use by such models. Content must not show the genitals or the buttocks, or have exclusive focus on these body parts, even if those body parts are censored. 
    
  



What you can do

Here's what you can do if your product is disapproved or if your Merchant Center account is impacted:


Product disapproval

  Products that don't comply with our policies may be disapproved. When a product is disapproved, it won't be eligible to serve. 

  
    Read our policies to learn what we don't allow.
    Update your website. If your ad or listing leads to content that violates a policy, update your website to meet the requirements and be in compliance with our policies.
    Remove the violating products from your product data. You’ll receive an email with details about the violation. 
      
        If you have products in your product data that violate the policy (or policies), you'll need to remove the offers from your feed.
      
    
    Update your product data in Merchant Center. If you created a schedule for automatic uploads, update your product data manually or wait for your product data to be automatically updated before requesting any reviews.
    Request a review of your products or appeal the decision taken on this issue.
      
        If the violating products are removed, you won't need to request a review or take any additional action.
        If you fix your product-level issues by editing your product data via your chosen upload method (such as a file) or directly in Merchant Center, your products will be re-reviewed.
        For certain issues, you can disagree with the issue but you may need to complete additional steps such as provide an appeal reason and/or upload required documentation.
        If you use a third-party platform to list your products, you can refer to your third-party if you want to request a review. You won’t be able to do this in Merchant Center.
        If a review or appeal is successful, the issue will disappear from Merchant Center.
      
    
  



Account disapproval

  For most violations, we'll send you a warning email detailing the policy violation and give you 7 or 28 calendar days to fix your issue.

  
    Read our policies to learn what we don't allow.
    Update your website. If your ad or listing leads to content that violates a policy, update your website to meet the requirements and be in compliance with our policies.
    Remove any violating products from your product data. You’ll receive an email with details about the violation. If you have products in your product data that violate the policy (or policies) you'll need to remove the offers from your feed.
    Update your data in Merchant Center. 
      
        Review your account and submit any missing information or complete any unfinished steps. 
        If you created a schedule for automatic uploads, update your product data manually or wait for your product data to be automatically updated before requesting any reviews.
      
    
    Request a review of your account or appeal the decision taken on this issue.
      
        If your account is still within the warning period, it will automatically be reviewed again at the end of the warning period. If the violating products are removed, you won't need to request an account review or take any additional action.
        If your account is suspended and you've taken actions to resolve the issue, request an account review.
        For certain issues, you can disagree with the issue but you may need to complete additional steps such as provide an appeal reason and/or upload required documentation.
        If you use a third-party platform to list your products, you can refer to your third-party if you want to request a review. You won’t be able to do this in Merchant Center.
      
    
  

  Most accounts are reviewed within 3 business days, but it can take longer if a more complex review is needed. If we find that you've removed the violating products from your product data, we’ll remove the warning. If a review or appeal is successful, the issue will disappear from Merchant Center. In the case of account suspension, we'll then also approve your account so your products can start displaying again.



Account issue that limits product visibility

  Your account has an issue and is operating with reserved functionality, therefore your products have limited visibility. An email was sent with a notice on what to do and the steps needed to resolve your account issue.

  
    Read our policies to learn more about our requirements.
    Update your website. If your ad or listing leads to content that violates a policy, update your website to meet the requirements and be in compliance with our policies.
    Fix any other open policy violation in your account. Review your products and your account details. 
      
        If products aren’t supported, remove them from your feed.
        If account details are missing, complete them in Merchant Center. 
      
    
    Request a review of your account or appeal the decision taken on this issue.
      
        If your Merchant Center account is still within the warning period for certain policies, it will automatically be reviewed again at the end of the warning period. 
        If your account is affected and you've resolved the issue, request a Merchant Center account review.
        For certain issues, you can disagree with the issue but you may need to complete additional steps such as provide an appeal reason and/or upload required documentation.
        If you use a third-party platform to list your products, you can refer to your third-party if you want to request a review. You won’t be able to do this in Merchant Center.
      
    
  

  Most accounts are reviewed within 3 business days, but it can take longer if a more complex review is needed. If we find that you've removed the violating products from your product data, we’ll remove the warning. If a review or appeal is successful, the issue will disappear from Merchant Center. In the case of accounts with limited visibility, we'll then also approve your account so your products can start displaying again without any restrictions.



To ensure a safe and positive experience for customers, Google requires that retailers comply with all applicable laws and regulations in addition to our policies. It's important that you familiarize yourself with and keep up to date on these requirements for the place where your business operates, as well as any other places your ads are shown. When we find content that violates these requirements, we may block it from appearing. In cases of repeated or egregious violations, we may ban you from advertising content with us.

             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       