 Dangerous products


  This policy applies to Shopping ads and local inventory ads



Our policy



  
    
      
        
        Google wants to help keep people safe both online and offline, so we don’t allow the promotion of some products that cause damage, harm, or injury.
        
      
    
  


Examples of what's allowed in some circumstances


  
    
      
      Guns, gun parts, & related products
      
    
  


  Google allows the promotion of gun parts and associated items that increase the safety of a gun

  Examples: Gun locks, trigger locks, safety pins, chamber block



Examples of what's not allowed


  
    
      
      Explosives
      
    
  


 Products that are designed to explode and could cause damage to nearby people or property

  Examples: Nail bomb, chemical bomb, any fireworks that explode, firecrackers, grenades



 Promotion of instructional content about the assembly, enhancement or acquisition of explosive items

  Examples: Bomb-making instructions, guides, software or equipment for 3D printing of parts of grenades 




  
    
      
      Guns, gun parts, & related products
      
    
  


 Functional devices that appear to discharge a projectile at high velocity, whether for sport, self-defense, or combat. Note that we err on the side of caution and apply this policy to sporting or recreational guns that can cause serious harm if misused, or that appear to be real guns

  Examples: Handguns, rifles, shotguns, hunting guns, functioning antique guns, airsoft guns, paintball guns, bb guns, 3D printed guns



 Any part or component, whether finished or unfinished, that is essential to, or enhances the functionality of a gun

  Examples: Ammunition, ammunition clips, silencers, ammunition belts, stocks, conversion kits, gun-grips, scopes and sights, tripods and bipods 



 Instructional content about the assembly, enhancement or acquisition of any of functional devices that appear to discharge a projectile at high velocity, including parts or components thereof

  Examples: Gun-making instructions, guides, software or equipment for 3D printing of guns or gun parts




  
    
      
      Dangerous knives
      
    
  


 Knives that are designed or promoted (in modern-day usage) as products that can be used to injure an opponent in sport, self-defense, or combat. Any knife design that provides a confrontational advantage (including disguised appearance or assisted-opening mechanism)

  Examples: Switchblades, fighting knives, sword-canes, balisongs, military knives, push daggers, throwing axes




  
    
      
      Other weapons
      
    
  


 Any other product designed to (in modern-day usage) injure an opponent in sport, self-defense or combat

  Examples: Throwing stars, brass knuckles, tasers, pepper spray



 Promotion of instructional content about the assembly, enhancement or acquisition of any product covered by the other weapons policy section

  Examples: Guides, software or equipment for 3D printing of push daggers, brass knuckles, throwing stars




  
    
      
      Recreational drugs & drug-related equipment
      
    
  


 Promotion of substances that alter mental state for the purpose of recreation, or otherwise induce "highs"

  Examples: Cocaine, crystal meth, heroin, marijuana, cocaine substitutes, mephedrone, "legal highs"



 Products marketed as facilitating recreational drug use

  Examples: Pipes, bongs, cannabis coffee shops



 Promotion of instructional content about producing, purchasing, or using recreational drugs

  Examples: Instructional resources on drug use




  
    
      
      Tobacco products & related equipment
      
    
  


 Tobacco or any products containing tobacco

  Examples: Cigarettes, cigars, snus, chewing tobacco, rolling tobacco, pipe tobacco



 Products that form a component part of a tobacco product, and products that directly facilitate or promote tobacco consumption

  Examples: Rolling papers, pipes, tobacco filters, hookahs



 Products designed to simulate tobacco smoking

  Examples: Herbal cigarettes, electronic cigarettes or e-cigarettes




  
    
      
      Sodium Nitrite
      
    
  


 Products with a concentration of more than 10% sodium nitrite


What you can do

Here's what you can do if your product is disapproved or if your Merchant Center account is impacted:


Product disapproval

  Products that don't comply with our policies may be disapproved. When a product is disapproved, it won't be eligible to serve. 

  
    Read our policies to learn what we don't allow.
    Update your website. If your ad or listing leads to content that violates a policy, update your website to meet the requirements and be in compliance with our policies.
    Remove the violating products from your product data. You’ll receive an email with details about the violation. 
      
        If you have products in your product data that violate the policy (or policies), you'll need to remove the offers from your feed.
      
    
    Update your product data in Merchant Center. If you created a schedule for automatic uploads, update your product data manually or wait for your product data to be automatically updated before requesting any reviews.
    Request a review of your products or appeal the decision taken on this issue.
      
        If the violating products are removed, you won't need to request a review or take any additional action.
        If you fix your product-level issues by editing your product data via your chosen upload method (such as a file) or directly in Merchant Center, your products will be re-reviewed.
        For certain issues, you can disagree with the issue but you may need to complete additional steps such as provide an appeal reason and/or upload required documentation.
        If you use a third-party platform to list your products, you can refer to your third-party if you want to request a review. You won’t be able to do this in Merchant Center.
        If a review or appeal is successful, the issue will disappear from Merchant Center.
      
    
  



Account disapproval

  For most violations, we'll send you a warning email detailing the policy violation and give you 7 or 28 calendar days to fix your issue.

  
    Read our policies to learn what we don't allow.
    Update your website. If your ad or listing leads to content that violates a policy, update your website to meet the requirements and be in compliance with our policies.
    Remove any violating products from your product data. You’ll receive an email with details about the violation. If you have products in your product data that violate the policy (or policies) you'll need to remove the offers from your feed.
    Update your data in Merchant Center. 
      
        Review your account and submit any missing information or complete any unfinished steps. 
        If you created a schedule for automatic uploads, update your product data manually or wait for your product data to be automatically updated before requesting any reviews.
      
    
    Request a review of your account or appeal the decision taken on this issue.
      
        If your account is still within the warning period, it will automatically be reviewed again at the end of the warning period. If the violating products are removed, you won't need to request an account review or take any additional action.
        If your account is suspended and you've taken actions to resolve the issue, request an account review.
        For certain issues, you can disagree with the issue but you may need to complete additional steps such as provide an appeal reason and/or upload required documentation.
        If you use a third-party platform to list your products, you can refer to your third-party if you want to request a review. You won’t be able to do this in Merchant Center.
      
    
  

  Most accounts are reviewed within 3 business days, but it can take longer if a more complex review is needed. If we find that you've removed the violating products from your product data, we’ll remove the warning. If a review or appeal is successful, the issue will disappear from Merchant Center. In the case of account suspension, we'll then also approve your account so your products can start displaying again.



Account issue that limits product visibility

  Your account has an issue and is operating with reserved functionality, therefore your products have limited visibility. An email was sent with a notice on what to do and the steps needed to resolve your account issue.

  
    Read our policies to learn more about our requirements.
    Update your website. If your ad or listing leads to content that violates a policy, update your website to meet the requirements and be in compliance with our policies.
    Fix any other open policy violation in your account. Review your products and your account details. 
      
        If products aren’t supported, remove them from your feed.
        If account details are missing, complete them in Merchant Center. 
      
    
    Request a review of your account or appeal the decision taken on this issue.
      
        If your Merchant Center account is still within the warning period for certain policies, it will automatically be reviewed again at the end of the warning period. 
        If your account is affected and you've resolved the issue, request a Merchant Center account review.
        For certain issues, you can disagree with the issue but you may need to complete additional steps such as provide an appeal reason and/or upload required documentation.
        If you use a third-party platform to list your products, you can refer to your third-party if you want to request a review. You won’t be able to do this in Merchant Center.
      
    
  

  Most accounts are reviewed within 3 business days, but it can take longer if a more complex review is needed. If we find that you've removed the violating products from your product data, we’ll remove the warning. If a review or appeal is successful, the issue will disappear from Merchant Center. In the case of accounts with limited visibility, we'll then also approve your account so your products can start displaying again without any restrictions.



To ensure a safe and positive experience for customers, Google requires that retailers comply with all applicable laws and regulations in addition to our policies. It's important that you familiarize yourself with and keep up to date on these requirements for the place where your business operates, as well as any other places your ads are shown. When we find content that violates these requirements, we may block it from appearing. In cases of repeated or egregious violations, we may ban you from advertising content with us.




             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       