 Alcoholic beverages


Our policy


  
    
      
        
        
          Google restricts the promotion of alcoholic beverages and drinks that resemble alcoholic beverages.

          When promoting alcoholic beverages, you may not do any of the following:

          
            Violate applicable laws and industry standards for any location that you target
            Target minors
            Imply that drinking alcohol can improve social, sexual, professional, intellectual, or athletic standing
            Imply that drinking alcohol provides health or therapeutic benefits
            Portray excessive drinking in a positive light or feature binge or competition drinking
            Show alcohol being consumed in conjunction with the operation of a vehicle of any kind, the operation of machinery, or the performance of any task requiring alertness or dexterity
          
        
        
      
    
  


Refer to the Google product category [google_product_category] attribute in the feed specification for requirements on how to submit these products to an appropriate audience.

Country-specific requirements

In addition to the requirements above, there may be further restrictions based on your target country. See additional country-specific requirements you must meet below.


  
    
      Countries
      Allowed?
    
    
      
      Argentina 
        Australia
        Austria
        Belgium
        Brazil
        Cambodia
        Canada
        Chile
        Colombia
        Costa Rica
        Czechia
        Denmark
        France
        Germany
        Ghana
        Greece
        Hong Kong
        Hungary
        Ireland
        Israel
        Italy
        Japan
        Kenya
        Netherlands
        New Zealand
        Nigeria
        Panama
        Peru
        Mexico
        Philippines
        Portugal
        Puerto Rico
        Romania
        Senegal
        Singapore
        Slovakia
        South Africa
        Spain
        Sweden
        Switzerland
        Uganda
        Ukraine
        United Kingdom
        United States
        Uruguay
      
       Allowed with limitations
      In these countries, Google allows the promotion of alcohol (including hard alcohol, liquor, beer, wine, champagne, and cider) as long as the requirements outlined above are met.
    
    
      
      Algeria
        Angola
        Bahrain
        Bangladesh
        Belarus
        Cameroon
        Cote d’Ivoire
        Dominican Republic
        Ecuador
        Egypt
        El Salvador
        Ethiopia
        Finland
        Georgia
        Guatemala
        India
        Indonesia
        Jordan
        Kazakhstan
        Kuwait
        Lebanon
        Madagascar
        Malaysia
        Mauritius
        Morocco
        Mozambique
        Myanmar (Burma)
        Nepal
        Nicaragua
        Norway
        Oman
        Pakistan
        Paraguay
        Poland
        Russia
        Saudi Arabia
        South Korea
        Sri Lanka
        Taiwan
        Tanzania
        Thailand
        Tunisia
        Turkey
        United Arab Emirates
        Uzbekistan
        Venezuela
        Vietnam
        Zambia
        Zimbabwe
      
       Not allowed
      In these countries, Google doesn't allow the promotion of any alcoholic beverages, including hard alcohol, liquor, beer, wine, champagne, or cider.
    
  



 


What you can do

Here's what you can do if your product is disapproved or if your Merchant Center account is impacted:


Product disapproval

  Products that don't comply with our policies may be disapproved. When a product is disapproved, it won't be eligible to serve. 

  
    Read our policies to learn what we don't allow.
    Update your website. If your ad or listing leads to content that violates a policy, update your website to meet the requirements and be in compliance with our policies.
    Remove the violating products from your product data. You’ll receive an email with details about the violation. 
      
        If you have products in your product data that violate the policy (or policies), you'll need to remove the offers from your feed.
      
    
    Update your product data in Merchant Center. If you created a schedule for automatic uploads, update your product data manually or wait for your product data to be automatically updated before requesting any reviews.
    Request a review of your products or appeal the decision taken on this issue.
      
        If the violating products are removed, you won't need to request a review or take any additional action.
        If you fix your product-level issues by editing your product data via your chosen upload method (such as a file) or directly in Merchant Center, your products will be re-reviewed.
        For certain issues, you can disagree with the issue but you may need to complete additional steps such as provide an appeal reason and/or upload required documentation.
        If you use a third-party platform to list your products, you can refer to your third-party if you want to request a review. You won’t be able to do this in Merchant Center.
        If a review or appeal is successful, the issue will disappear from Merchant Center.
      
    
  



Account disapproval

  For most violations, we'll send you a warning email detailing the policy violation and give you 7 or 28 calendar days to fix your issue.

  
    Read our policies to learn what we don't allow.
    Update your website. If your ad or listing leads to content that violates a policy, update your website to meet the requirements and be in compliance with our policies.
    Remove any violating products from your product data. You’ll receive an email with details about the violation. If you have products in your product data that violate the policy (or policies) you'll need to remove the offers from your feed.
    Update your data in Merchant Center. 
      
        Review your account and submit any missing information or complete any unfinished steps. 
        If you created a schedule for automatic uploads, update your product data manually or wait for your product data to be automatically updated before requesting any reviews.
      
    
    Request a review of your account or appeal the decision taken on this issue.
      
        If your account is still within the warning period, it will automatically be reviewed again at the end of the warning period. If the violating products are removed, you won't need to request an account review or take any additional action.
        If your account is suspended and you've taken actions to resolve the issue, request an account review.
        For certain issues, you can disagree with the issue but you may need to complete additional steps such as provide an appeal reason and/or upload required documentation.
        If you use a third-party platform to list your products, you can refer to your third-party if you want to request a review. You won’t be able to do this in Merchant Center.
      
    
  

  Most accounts are reviewed within 3 business days, but it can take longer if a more complex review is needed. If we find that you've removed the violating products from your product data, we’ll remove the warning. If a review or appeal is successful, the issue will disappear from Merchant Center. In the case of account suspension, we'll then also approve your account so your products can start displaying again.



Account issue that limits product visibility

  Your account has an issue and is operating with reserved functionality, therefore your products have limited visibility. An email was sent with a notice on what to do and the steps needed to resolve your account issue.

  
    Read our policies to learn more about our requirements.
    Update your website. If your ad or listing leads to content that violates a policy, update your website to meet the requirements and be in compliance with our policies.
    Fix any other open policy violation in your account. Review your products and your account details. 
      
        If products aren’t supported, remove them from your feed.
        If account details are missing, complete them in Merchant Center. 
      
    
    Request a review of your account or appeal the decision taken on this issue.
      
        If your Merchant Center account is still within the warning period for certain policies, it will automatically be reviewed again at the end of the warning period. 
        If your account is affected and you've resolved the issue, request a Merchant Center account review.
        For certain issues, you can disagree with the issue but you may need to complete additional steps such as provide an appeal reason and/or upload required documentation.
        If you use a third-party platform to list your products, you can refer to your third-party if you want to request a review. You won’t be able to do this in Merchant Center.
      
    
  

  Most accounts are reviewed within 3 business days, but it can take longer if a more complex review is needed. If we find that you've removed the violating products from your product data, we’ll remove the warning. If a review or appeal is successful, the issue will disappear from Merchant Center. In the case of accounts with limited visibility, we'll then also approve your account so your products can start displaying again without any restrictions.



To ensure a safe and positive experience for customers, Google requires that retailers comply with all applicable laws and regulations in addition to our policies. It's important that you familiarize yourself with and keep up to date on these requirements for the place where your business operates, as well as any other places your ads are shown. When we find content that violates these requirements, we may block it from appearing. In cases of repeated or egregious violations, we may ban you from advertising content with us.

             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       