 Unsupported Shopping content


  This policy applies to Shopping ads and local inventory ads



Our policy



  
    
      
        
        
          Google aims to enable businesses to promote a wide variety of products, but some Google products and platforms may not be optimized to appropriately support all content types.

          For this reason, Shopping ads don't allow the promotion of certain content where we don't offer an optimal user experience.

          Note that because these limitations are specific to Shopping ads, they do not impact policies on other Google products or platforms, where functionality differs or additional support mechanisms are in place.
        
        
      
    
  


Examples of what's not allowed


  
    
      
      Ticket sales
      
    
  


 Future transport or event tickets

  Examples: Concert tickets, airline tickets, bus reservation tickets




  
    
      
      Vehicles
      
    
  


 Motor or sail-powered vehicles used for transport of people on public access ways

  Examples: Cars (except vehicle ads as noted below), RVs, trucks, boats, catamarans, planes, helicopters, motorcycles, mopeds, jet skis
  Exception: Motor-powered bicycles are allowed, with these conditions:
    
      Motor-powered bicycles must comply with applicable laws and regulations concerning maximum motor-assisted speeds.
      Product listings must explicitly state the bicycle’s speed on the landing page and either the product title or description. For example: eBike, Top Speed 15.5mph, 150km Range, 504Wh, 21kg, 28” - Dark Colour. If the speed isn’t stated, they’re in violation of our policy and will be disapproved.
    
  
  Exception: Vehicle ads, an ad format which allows vehicle advertisers to promote their entire inventory of new and used vehicles (light passenger cars and trucks) to interested customers shopping for vehicles, are allowed. Learn more about vehicle ads




  
    
      
      Financial products
      
    
  


 Products related to finance management, financial assets, investments, securities, or insurances

  Examples: Stocks, bonds, investment products, insurance policies, credit cards, money orders, cashiers checks




  
    
      
      eBooks and digital books (not including audiobooks)
      
    
  



 eBooks and digital books (not including audiobooks)


  Examples: PDFs, ePub books, MOBI, and 電子書籍 formats.




  
    
      
      Currency
      
    
  


 Mediums of exchange that are reliant on variable currency market values to determine price, including discounted currencies, currency exchanges, or currency backed by precious materials

  Examples: Gold bullion, precious metals, local currency, virtual currency




  
    
      
      Open-loop gift cards
      
    
  


 Pre-paid gift cards branded by a credit card issuer

  Examples: Mastercard, Visa, or American Express branded gift cards
  Exceptions to the policy include but are not limited to: Gift cards with an expiration date are allowed




  
    
      
      Services
      
    
  


 Labor, time, effort, expertise, or actions, which do not result in ownership of a tangible product. This includes any services sold bundled with physical goods. In accordance with our medical devices policy, test kits where samples are collected at home and analyzed in a lab are not considered services and are allowed on Shopping.

  Examples: Maintenance or repair services, accounting services, financial planning services, streaming content, online gaming currency, car repair services sold bundled with purchase of tires




  
    
      
      Immovable property
      
    
  


 Property not physically movable or which cannot be moved without being altered or destroyed

  Examples: Real estate, non-portable homes, plots of land




  
    
      
      Recurring billing
      
    
  


 Payment method that allows users pay for goods on an ongoing basis, at regular intervals in the future

  Examples: Security or medical alert system with recurring payment for subscription, digital content with recurring payment subscriptions
  Exceptions to the policy: Refer to the price [price] attribute of the feed specification for requirements on how to submit prices for these products.
    
      Magazines and newspapers subscriptions with recurring billing are allowed.
      Mobile products are allowed to be sold in installments or with a subscription contract if specifically listed here and are categorized under the Google product category (GPC) codes listed below. Make sure to review the best practices for listing wireless products and services.
        
          Watches (ID: 201)
          Mobile Phone (ID: 267)
          Tablet Computers (ID: 4745)
          Mobile Phone Prepaid Cards and SIM Cards (ID: 6030)
          GPS Tracking Devices (ID: 6544)
        
      
      Software subscriptions that are pre-paid and auto-renew only annually are allowed.
      In Brazil, subscriptions with recurring billing to telecom are allowed. Installment pricing, not open-ended billing, is allowed for all other products.
    
  




  
    
      
      Billing processed by product software
      
    
  


 Online payment method for goods that require additional software installation to complete the purchase

  Examples: Digital photo albums that can only be purchased if additional software is installed




What you can do

Here's what you can do if your product is disapproved or if your Merchant Center account is impacted:


Product disapproval

  Products that don't comply with our policies may be disapproved. When a product is disapproved, it won't be eligible to serve. 

  
    Read our policies to learn what we don't allow.
    Update your website. If your ad or listing leads to content that violates a policy, update your website to meet the requirements and be in compliance with our policies.
    Remove the violating products from your product data. You’ll receive an email with details about the violation. 
      
        If you have products in your product data that violate the policy (or policies), you'll need to remove the offers from your feed.
      
    
    Update your product data in Merchant Center. If you created a schedule for automatic uploads, update your product data manually or wait for your product data to be automatically updated before requesting any reviews.
    Request a review of your products or appeal the decision taken on this issue.
      
        If the violating products are removed, you won't need to request a review or take any additional action.
        If you fix your product-level issues by editing your product data via your chosen upload method (such as a file) or directly in Merchant Center, your products will be re-reviewed.
        For certain issues, you can disagree with the issue but you may need to complete additional steps such as provide an appeal reason and/or upload required documentation.
        If you use a third-party platform to list your products, you can refer to your third-party if you want to request a review. You won’t be able to do this in Merchant Center.
        If a review or appeal is successful, the issue will disappear from Merchant Center.
      
    
  



Account disapproval

  For most violations, we'll send you a warning email detailing the policy violation and give you 7 or 28 calendar days to fix your issue.

  
    Read our policies to learn what we don't allow.
    Update your website. If your ad or listing leads to content that violates a policy, update your website to meet the requirements and be in compliance with our policies.
    Remove any violating products from your product data. You’ll receive an email with details about the violation. If you have products in your product data that violate the policy (or policies) you'll need to remove the offers from your feed.
    Update your data in Merchant Center. 
      
        Review your account and submit any missing information or complete any unfinished steps. 
        If you created a schedule for automatic uploads, update your product data manually or wait for your product data to be automatically updated before requesting any reviews.
      
    
    Request a review of your account or appeal the decision taken on this issue.
      
        If your account is still within the warning period, it will automatically be reviewed again at the end of the warning period. If the violating products are removed, you won't need to request an account review or take any additional action.
        If your account is suspended and you've taken actions to resolve the issue, request an account review.
        For certain issues, you can disagree with the issue but you may need to complete additional steps such as provide an appeal reason and/or upload required documentation.
        If you use a third-party platform to list your products, you can refer to your third-party if you want to request a review. You won’t be able to do this in Merchant Center.
      
    
  

  Most accounts are reviewed within 3 business days, but it can take longer if a more complex review is needed. If we find that you've removed the violating products from your product data, we’ll remove the warning. If a review or appeal is successful, the issue will disappear from Merchant Center. In the case of account suspension, we'll then also approve your account so your products can start displaying again.



Account issue that limits product visibility

  Your account has an issue and is operating with reserved functionality, therefore your products have limited visibility. An email was sent with a notice on what to do and the steps needed to resolve your account issue.

  
    Read our policies to learn more about our requirements.
    Update your website. If your ad or listing leads to content that violates a policy, update your website to meet the requirements and be in compliance with our policies.
    Fix any other open policy violation in your account. Review your products and your account details. 
      
        If products aren’t supported, remove them from your feed.
        If account details are missing, complete them in Merchant Center. 
      
    
    Request a review of your account or appeal the decision taken on this issue.
      
        If your Merchant Center account is still within the warning period for certain policies, it will automatically be reviewed again at the end of the warning period. 
        If your account is affected and you've resolved the issue, request a Merchant Center account review.
        For certain issues, you can disagree with the issue but you may need to complete additional steps such as provide an appeal reason and/or upload required documentation.
        If you use a third-party platform to list your products, you can refer to your third-party if you want to request a review. You won’t be able to do this in Merchant Center.
      
    
  

  Most accounts are reviewed within 3 business days, but it can take longer if a more complex review is needed. If we find that you've removed the violating products from your product data, we’ll remove the warning. If a review or appeal is successful, the issue will disappear from Merchant Center. In the case of accounts with limited visibility, we'll then also approve your account so your products can start displaying again without any restrictions.



To ensure a safe and positive experience for customers, Google requires that retailers comply with all applicable laws and regulations in addition to our policies. It's important that you familiarize yourself with and keep up to date on these requirements for the place where your business operates, as well as any other places your ads are shown. When we find content that violates these requirements, we may block it from appearing. In cases of repeated or egregious violations, we may ban you from advertising content with us.

             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       