 Find a GTIN

A Global Trade Item Number (GTIN) is a unique and internationally recognized identifier for a product. When a GTIN is available, it will appear next to the barcode on your product's packaging or book cover. Submit GTINs in your product data using the GTIN [gtin] attribute to help us classify and display your products.

On this page


  Types of GTINs
  Finding a GTIN
  Related links


Types of GTINs

GTINs vary in length depending on the type of product and where the product will be sold. Here are the different GTINs you might encounter:


  UPC (in North America / GTIN-12): 12-digit number (8-digit UPC-E codes should be converted to 12-digit UPC-A codes)
  EAN (in Europe / GTIN-13): 13-digit number
  JAN (in Japan / GTIN-13): 8 or 13-digit number
  ISBN (for books): 13-digit number (ISBN-10 values should be converted to ISBN-13)
  ITF-14 (for multipacks / GTIN-14): 14-digit number


Finding a GTIN

To find the GTIN of your product, you can refer to the barcode on your product, your product's packaging or book cover. Take a look at the example barcodes below to get a sense of how the GTIN can be displayed on your product. Keep in mind that not all products have a GTIN. If you can't find the GTIN, you can always contact the product's manufacturer to ask for it. Learn more about unique product identifiers


  Note: If you are using a third party to find GTINs, be sure to verify its legitimacy.


UPC

This type of GTIN is found on products sold in the United States. It's the 12-digit number below the barcode:



EAN or JAN or ISBN

This type of GTIN is found on products sold in Europe or Japan, plus on books sold worldwide. It's the 13-digit number below the barcode:



ITF-14

This type of GTIN is found on products that are sold in multipacks, like shipping boxes for example. The GTIN is the 14-digit number below the barcode:




  Tip

  If you're reviewing the GTINs on your product's packaging, you might want to download the Barcode Scanner app from the Google Play Store. The app can scan a barcode to give you the GTIN and tell you the type of GTIN you scanned.


Related links


  Unique product identifiers
  Product data specification
  GTIN [gtin]



             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       