 How to fix: Missing image: image link [image_link]Add your product's image

One or more of your products doesn't have a valid image provided for the image link [image_link] attribute. For each of your products you must provide an image that shows a clear view of the product being sold. Products that do not contain valid images will be disapproved until the issue is resolved.

Learn more about image requirements

Instructions


  Step 1: See the affected products

  
  Sign in to your Merchant Center account.
  Select Products on the navigation menu, then click Diagnostics.
  Click the Item issues tab to see current issues affecting your products.


To download a list (.csv) of all affected products for all issues:


  Click the download button  next to the filter button , beneath the graph and above the list of issues.


To download a list (.csv) of all affected products for a particular issue:


  Find the issue under the “Issue” column, then click the download button  at the end of the row.


To see a list of up to 50 products with this particular issue:


  Find the issue under the “Issue” column, then click View examples in the “Affected items” column.





  Step 2: Provide images that uniquely, clearly and exclusively identify each variant of the product

  
    
      
        Filter the downloaded report so that you only see products with:
          "Issue title" = Missing image: image link [image_link]
      
      Check your product data for those products (using the ID), and make sure each product has a primary image that conforms to our data specifications. You can add an image using the image link [image_link] attribute.
      You may need to update the local products inventory feed, the local products feed and the regular Shopping ads feed for this product if you use all of those Google shopping platforms.
    
  



  Step 3: Resubmit your product data

  
  After you’ve updated your product data, resubmit it using one of these methods:
    
      Upload a feed
      Submit through the Content API
      Import content from an ecommerce platform
    
  
  Next, check that you’ve fixed the issue by making sure it’s no longer listed on the Diagnostics page.
    
    Keep in mind: It may take some time for your change to be reflected on the Diagnostics page.




Related links


  About item disapprovals for policy violations
  Image link [image_link]
  Additional image link [additional_image_link]
  Product data specification: image link [image_link] attribute
  Local products feed specification
  Local product inventory feed specification

             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       