 How to submit product reviews data
You can send product reviews data to Google in the following ways:


  Upload your product reviews feed directly in your Merchant Center account. To learn more, refer to the “How to upload a new product reviews feed” section in Product Ratings feeds through Merchant Center. You can also refer to feed specifications to learn how to properly format your product reviews feed.
  Work with an approved third-party reviews aggregator (listed below) to have Google fetch reviews directly from them.
  Collect reviews through Google Customer Reviews.


Your decision to participate in Product Ratings through Merchant Center, a reviews aggregator, or Google Customer Reviews may depend on various factors, including familiarity with setting up feeds and resources available for maintaining feeds.


  
    
       
      Benefits
      Challenges
    
    
      Merchant Center
      Manage the rating submissions process independently
      May be difficult to create and submit XML feeds without help
    
    
      Third-party reviews aggregator
      Third-party aggregators manage the ratings submission process for you
      There may be costs associated with this service
    
    
      Google Customer Reviews
      Free service that allows you to collect product and seller reviews
      No capability to import existing product reviews collected from the other sources
    
  


If you choose to work with a reviews aggregator, you can select from the list of eligible aggregators:


  Annex Cloud
  Bazaarvoice
  eKomi
  Feedaty (Zoorate)
  Feefo
  Guaranteed Reviews Company
  Junip
  Kudobuzz
  Loox
  Okendo
  PowerReviews
  Reevo
  Reseller Ratings
  Revi.io
  Reviews.io
  Shopper Approved
  Shopping Satisfaction
  Stamped
  TargetBay
  TestFreaks
  Trusted Shops
  Trustpilot
  TurnTo
  Verified Reviews
  Yotpo


Aggregators may charge fees. Google does not control or moderate these fees.


  
    Note: Product Ratings is supported in every country where Shopping is available, but not every aggregator will support all countries. Remember to confirm country availability with your aggregator contact.
  

             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       