 About beta countries for Shopping Ads and free listings


  All existing vehicle ads Smart Shopping campaigns will be upgraded to Performance Max by September 2023, bringing you additional inventory and formats to reach new customers. Accounts in which all campaigns have been upgraded are no longer able to create new Smart Shopping campaigns. Learn how to create a Performance Max campaign.



Shopping ads and free product listings are expanding into new countries. You can include any of these beta countries as a target country for Shopping ads and free listings. You can show products in beta countries using any language that is supported for Merchant Center. Learn more about language and currency

Benefits


  
    Expand your reach by creating Shopping ads and free listings, and showing your products in new countries.
  
  Be one of the first retailers to show your products in beta countries.


Limitations


  Participation in beta countries may initially only be available to certain retailers.
  Performance in beta countries may differ from that of non-beta countries. Some products that are shown in beta countries may not be eligible to show everywhere.
  It’s recommended that retailers who use Performance Max in beta countries set a target ROAS value to ensure consistent performance while traffic is being ramped up. If you're using Performance Max in a beta target country and have an existing Display remarketing campaign, we recommend keeping that campaign active. Your Display remarketing and Performance Max will run in parallel as traffic in beta countries ramps up.


Target countries

You can show products in the following beta countries:


  
    
      Target country
    
    
      Algeria
    
    
      Angola
    
    
      Bangladesh
    
    
      Cambodia
    
    
      Cameroon
    
    
      Costa Rica
    
    
      Côte d'Ivoire
    
    
      Dominican Republic
    
    
      El Salvador
    
    
      Ethiopia
    
    
      Ghana
    
    
      Guatemala
    
    
      Kenya
    
    
      Madagascar
    
    
      Mauritius
    
    
      Morocco
    
    
      Mozambique
    
    
      Myanmar (Burma)
    
    
      Nepal
    
    
      Nicaragua
    
    
      Nigeria
    
    
      Pakistan
    
    
      Panama
    
    
      Puerto Rico
    
    
      Saudi Arabia
    
    
      Senegal
    
    
      Sri Lanka
    
    
      Tanzania
    
    
      Tunisia
    
    
      Uganda
    
    
      Ukraine
    
    
      Venezuela
    
    
      Zambia
    
    
      Zimbabwe
    
  




             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       