 Google brand

If you believe a Google Customer Reviews participant is in violation of one of the policies below, please let us know by filling out the Google Customer Reviews report violation form so we can investigate.

Academic aids

Google Customer Reviews doesn't allow the promotion of academic aids that provide an unfair academic advantage. This includes getting actual test questions in advance, turning in a paper someone else has written as your own original work, or test taking services (where someone will take an exam for you).

Anti and violence

Google doesn't allow the promotion of "anti" or violent concepts, such as the following:


  Content advocating against an organization, person, or group of people
  Content advocating against a protected group. A protected group is distinguished by one of the following: race or ethnic origin, color, national origin, religion, disability, sex, age, veteran status, sexual orientation, or gender identity
  Attempts to revise history against the interests of a protected group
  The promotion of self-harm and violence against people or animals


How does this policy differ from country to country?
Australia


  In Australia, Google Customer Reviews doesn't allow the promotion of content that advocates against the following additional groups, as recognized by Australian legislation:

  
    Political opinion
    Marital status
    Family responsibility or family status
    Employment status
    HIV or AIDS infected
    Irrelevant criminal record
    Irrelevant medical record
  

Germany


  In Germany, Google Customer Reviews doesn't allow the promotion of Scientology.



Sensitive issues

Google Customer Reviews doesn't allow the promotion of products attempting to capitalize on sensitive issues. Sensitive issues are usually identified in response to exceptional global events that can't be predicted, like natural disasters or political uprisings, and therefore aren't outlined on this page.

Inappropriate language

Google Customer Reviews doesn’t allow content or websites containing excessive inappropriate language or profanity. This also includes variations and misspellings of inappropriate language.
             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       