 About branding assets for Buy on Google
  Buy on Google for Search and Shopping will no longer be available starting September 26, 2023. Eligible merchants will be able to use Buy on Google for YouTube in the US. Learn more about Enabling Buy on Google for YouTube.





By adding branding assets, you can help customers remember your brand and build trust in your business.

This article gives you an overview of the branding assets that can be added to Buy on Google to promote your business’ brand. Learn how to create branding assets for Buy on Google 

How it works

You may have up to 3 branding assets on your store page:


  Round logo for Buy on Google: This is the full size logo artwork, which represents the brand on larger featured areas like the merchant page and appears as small as 40 px.
  Favicon for Buy on Google: This is an abbreviated version of the logo, containing 1-2 letters or an icon and appears on small UI layouts as small as 16 px.
  Banners for Buy on Google: This is a photographic representation of the merchant inventory or brand, displayed on the merchant page or feature modules.


Add all 3 branding assets to customize your page and help users identify your brand from other retailers.


  Note: You'll have a default logo assigned to when you set up your Buy on Google store, but you can add your own logo if you prefer.


Round logo for Buy on Google requirements

To be eligible to appear on Buy on Google, your round logo must meet the following requirements:

Image requirements


  Solid circular logo and favicon with no additional text
  Transparent background outside of the circle
  High resolution
  No background photo
  No outline or edge detail on circle


Square logos within the circle background are acceptable as long as the square fits the specified safe areas defined in the logo and favicon guidelines.

Format requirements (logo only)


  Logo size: 5 MB (maximum)
  File types: PNG, SVG
  Dimensions: 768 x 768 pixels
  Make sure to follow the requirements if you want to have your branding assets approved by Google. To make sure that you submit your assets in the correct format, you may refer to the below examples of acceptable and unacceptable logos.



  Examples

  
    
      
        
          
          Acceptable logos
          
        
        
          
          

          Circular logo
          
          
          

          Colored background
          
          
          

          Clear text
          
          
          

          No outline
          
          
          

          No background photo, only graphic elements
          
        
        
          
          Unacceptable logos
          
        
        
          
          

          Non-circular logo
          
          
          

          Transparent background
          
          
          

          Fine details, illegible text
          
          
          

          Fine outline
          
          
          

          Background photo
          
        
      
    

    Scaling

    Your logo should fill the available space.

    
      
        
          Acceptable logos
        
        
          
          

          Good size
          
        
        
          Unacceptable logos
        
        
          
          

          Logo is too small, not filling the space
          
        
      
    

    Logos safe area (recommended)

    Keep your logo within the recommended "safe area".

    
      
        
          
          Safe area
          
          
          Recommended
          
          
          Not recommended
          
        
        
          
          
          
          
          
        
      
    

    Exception

    Your logo can include the specified safe area as part of the design.

    
      
        
          Circular brand mark logo
        
        
          
        
      
    

    
      
        
          Acceptable Banners
        
        
          
          

          Background is darker than #ccccc
          
          
          

          Logo is not dominant
          
          
          

          No promotion, slogan only
          
          
          

          Photographic representation
          
        
        
          Unacceptable Banners
        
        
          
          

          Background is lighter than #ccccc
          
          
          

          Logo only
          
          
          

          Promotion, watermark
          
          
          

          Blank
          
        
      
    

    Once you create your branding assets, you’ll need to upload them to your Merchant Center account. Go to the “Business information” section of your account, select "Branding", then click the Color and logos for Buy on Google drop down menu.

    
      Note: Your branding assets must be approved by Google before they can appear on Buy on Google. Because of this review period, there may be a short delay between when you upload and when you’ll see them live. When they’re approved, you’ll see a “live” symbol next to the asset in your account. You’re responsible for making sure that your branding assets do not infringe on the IP of others.
    
  





  
  Need help? Click here to contact Buy on Google support.



             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       