 About the inventory feed specification


  This feed is only used to implement the optional local feeds partnership program.



The inventory feed provides a list of all products (identified by id) sold in each store (identified by store_code) for a given retailer (identified by target_customer_id). It's recommended that you update the inventory feed at least daily.

Each time you upload the inventory feed, product information is updated incrementally. You only need to include products for which the availability or price has changed since the previous update.


  Note: In order to implement the local feeds partnership program, you're required to upload either an inventory feed or a sales feed. You can also upload both feeds and use them in combination.




  
  
  
    
      Required field
      Description
      Type
      Example
    
    
      target_customer_id
      The merchant ID of this retailer.
      Integer
      112339909
    
    
      store_code
      
      The unique store identifier. This value is case sensitive.

      Use either the store code listed in the retailer's Business Profile or a point of sales (POS)/inventory data provider internal identifier.

      Note: If using an internal store code, provide a mapping to the store address in the store feed.
      
      String
      ‘465278’
    
    
      id
      
      The unique identifier of the product. It's recommended that you use the product SKU.

      Note: If the retailer sells the same product new and used, they should have different IDs.
      
      String
      <= 50 characters
      ‘1029384’
    
    
      gtin
      
      The Global Trade Item Number of the product.
        We accept a variety of standards for gtin (including UPC). Learn more About unique product identifiers
      
      String
      ‘885787364684’
    
    
      quantity
      The quantity of the product.
      Integer
      >= 0
      5
    
    
      price
      The price of the product in local currency.
      String
      ‘28.00 USD’
    
    
      timestamp
      
      The timestamp of recording the inventory in a specific time zone, as defined by the ISO 8601 standard.

      Format: yyyy-mm-ddThh:mm:ss+time zone
      
      String
      ‘2016-05-09T14:08:45+00:00’
    
  

             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       