 About Buy on Google
  Buy on Google for Search and Shopping will no longer be available starting September 26, 2023. Eligible merchants will be able to use Buy on Google for YouTube in the US. Learn more about Enabling Buy on Google for YouTube.





Retailers of all sizes can sell their products directly on Google, with zero Google commission fees, through our Buy on Google checkout experience. Retailers can work with their own third-party providers for payment processing and more.

This experience is available in the US.

GET STARTED WITH BUY ON GOOGLE



Benefits

Lower cost with commission-free model: Sell your products on Google without paying Google commission fees.

Greater choice with third-party providers: Bring your existing providers for things like payment processing, inventory, and order management so you can use the tools and services that already work for your business.

Simpler process for listing products: Import the product feed you already use for other popular marketplaces without having to reformat your data. Retailers can also add product information by pulling from our existing database rather than having to upload it themselves.

 

Eligibility

To participate in Buy on Google, you’ll need to meet the following participation criteria:


  Availability and payments in the US. You’ll need to be able to deliver orders to customers within the mainland US, handle returns within the US, and be a legally registered business incorporated in the US. For businesses outside of the US, refer to cross-border selling for Buy on Google.
  Inventory is free of restricted products and services. A selected number of product categories aren’t supported on Buy on Google at this time.
  Payment service provider. You’ll be required to connect your Merchant Center account with a payment-service provider.
  Meet returns and customer support standards and policies. Accept returns for at least 30 days after delivery for most items and process the refund within 2 days.
  A valid government-issued ID, such as a driver’s license or passport, from the country your business is incorporated in.
  Compliance with all other Buy on Google policies. Learn more about Buy on Google policies and requirements
  Compliance with all other Shopping ads policies. Learn more about Shopping ads policies


 



  Need help? Click here to contact Buy on Google support.




             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       