 Set up transit time label

Use transit time labels to provide more accurate estimated delivery dates to your customers when shipping different groups of products from different locations. For example, if you ship a group of products from a warehouse in Texas and you ship another group of products from a warehouse in New York, the delivery time may vary based on the destination.

How it works

The following table shows how transit time labels and regions can be used:


  
    
      Product
      transit_time_label
      "West Coast" region
      "Midwest" region
      "East Coast" region
    
    
      5-piece drum kit - blue
      drums_heavy
      2-3 days
      3-4 days
      4-5 days
    
    
      5-piece drum kit - red
      drums_heavy
      2-3 days
      3-4 days
      4-5 days
    
    
      Guitar strap - blue
      guitar_strap_light
      1-2 days
      1-2 days
      2-3 days
    
    
      Guitar strap - red
      guitar_strap_light
      1-2 days
      1-2 days
      2-3 days
    
  


In the above example, the same transit time labels are applied to similar products. Since the retailer's warehouse is located in California, shipping speeds are faster for deliveries to the west coast than to the east coast. Additionally, items labeled with "drums_heavy" have longer shipping speeds than items labeled with "guitar_strap_light" since those packages are larger and heavier.

Instructions


  Step 1: Update your feed

  
    Add the transit time label [transit_time_label] attribute to your feed. This is an open text field, which means you can customize the label you create. Apply labels to products in your feed that have similar transit times.
  



  Step 2: Set up regions

  
    Regions are used to create custom areas so accurate shipping costs and transit times can be set across multiple shipping services. Learn more about how to set up regions
  



  Step 3: Set up a new shipping service with transit time labels

  
    
      Sign in to your Merchant Center account.
      Click the tools icon , then select Shipping and returns under “Tools.”
      If you’re creating a new shipping service, click the plus icon  in the “Shipping services” tab. If you’re updating an existing shipping service, open that service and skip to step 6.
      Use the drop-downs to set the cutoff times under "Order cutoff time".
      Under "Handling time in business days", fill in the estimated handling time.
      Under "Transit times", click More transit times.
      Click Add Destination and select your destination from the drop-down. Create a new destination by selecting New destination.
      Click Add transit time label and select a product group from the drop-down.
      Define the number of transit days for each product group by destination.
      Click Save.
    
  


Related links


  About shipping settings
  Set up shipping settings
  Set up estimated delivery time

             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       