 About marketplace facilitator tax
  Buy on Google for Search and Shopping will no longer be available starting September 26, 2023. Eligible merchants will be able to use Buy on Google for YouTube in the US. Learn more about Enabling Buy on Google for YouTube.





 

Marketplace facilitator tax is a term for legislation passed in the United States by individual states. This legislation has shifted tax collection and remittance responsibilities from Buy on Google retailers to Google. In accordance with these laws, Google will collect and remit taxes for Buy on Google products sold in states with marketplace facilitator laws. These states currently include:


  
    
      January 2019
      
      
        Alabama
        Connecticut
        Iowa
        Oklahoma
        Minnesota
        New Jersey
        Pennsylvania
        Washington
      
      
    
    
      March 1, 2019
      
      
        South Dakota
      
      
    
    
      April 1, 2019
      
      
        Washington, DC
      
      
    
    
      June 1, 2019
      
      
        Idaho
        Nebraska
        New York
      
      
    
    
      June 27, 2019
      
      
        Rhode Island
      
      
    
    
      July 1, 2019
      
      
        Arkansas
        Indiana
        Kentucky
        New Mexico
        South Carolina
        Vermont
        Virginia
        West Virginia
        Wyoming
      
      
    
    
      September 1, 2019
      
      
        Ohio
      
      
    
    
      October 1, 2019
      
      
        Arizona
        California
        Colorado
        Maine
        Maryland
        Massachusetts
        Nevada
        North Dakota
        Texas
        Utah
      
      
    
    
      January 1, 2020
      
      
        Hawaii
        Illinois
        Michigan
        Wisconsin
      
      
    
    
      February 1, 2020
      
      
        North Carolina
      
      
    
    
      April 1, 2020
      
      
        Georgia
      
      
    
    
      July 1, 2020
      
      
        Louisiana
        Mississippi
      
      
    
    
      October 1, 2020
      
      
        Tennessee
      
      
    
    
      
      July 1, 2021
      
      
      
        Florida
        Kansas
      
      
    
  



  Note: This list may grow as additional states pass similar legislation over time.


This article explains how marketplace facilitator tax is being applied to your Buy on Google products.

How it works

Google will determine the tax rate in applicable states by using any Google Product Categories that you supply in your feed. Learn more about Google Product Categories

In states that have marketplace facilitator tax laws, your products are taxed in accordance with those laws. For orders in these states, Google remits the tax directly to state tax authorities. You're unable to refund or alter tax on orders in these states.

In states that don't have marketplace facilitator tax laws, Google passes any taxes collected back to you, and you are responsible for remitting taxes as applicable. You're also able to refund or alter taxes at the time of order shipment.


  For states that have marketplace facilitator tax laws, if you haven't provided Google Product Categories in your product data, tax rates will be automatically determined and applied by Google. Because Google cannot guarantee the categorization is correct in these circumstances, in order to provide the best experience to your customers, we suggest upgrading your feed to provide Google Product Categories. For states that don't have marketplace facilitator tax laws, the tax rate will continue to be calculated as it is today - using your Merchant Center tax settings or your tax overrides in the feed. Learn more about configuring tax in Merchant Center


Google will make every effort to calculate tax as accurately as possible. However, because you have the most familiarity with your product assortment, it's strongly recommended that you supply Google Product Categories in order to help ensure that customers pay the tax amounts that they expect to see.


  Related links

  
    google_product_category: Definition
    About tax settings
    Set up tax settings
  



  Need help? Click here to contact Buy on Google support.


             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       