 Promotions on Buy on Google participation criteria and policies 


  Buy on Google for Search and Shopping will no longer be available starting September 26, 2023. Eligible merchants will be able to use Buy on Google for YouTube in the US. Learn more about Enabling Buy on Google for YouTube.





This article provides details about Buy on Google promotions participation criteria and policies. To participate, merchants need to be a retailer on Buy on Google with a Merchant Center account and must have at least one active item in your Merchant Center account.

Learn more about promotions on Buy on Google

Participation criteria


  To use promotions on Buy on Google, they must meet the following criteria:

  
    Promotions must provide an additional value on top of an item’s display price
    Promotions must follow our editorial guidelines
  

  You can run promotions on Buy on Google independently of promotions you might run on Shopping ads or your own website.


Promotions policy requirements

Supported promotion types

Promotions on Buy on Google can be of the following structured promotion types. Structured promotions are promotion types that allow you to insert dollar amounts or percentages off into standardized promotions, such as “get X% off” or “Buy x units get $x USD off”.


  
    
      Promotion
      Type
      Additional info
    
    
      Discounts
      % off discounts
      % off on entire order
      % off on select items
      % off on select items with minimum order of $x USD
    
    
      Promo code
      % off with code (auto applies at checkout)
      $ USD off with code (auto applies at checkout)
    
    
      $ USD off discounts
      $ USD off on entire order
      $ USD off with minimum order of $x
      $ USD off on select items
      $ USD off on select items with minimum order of $x USD
    
    
      Quantity discounts (on the same item)
      Buy x units get $x USD off
      Buy x units get x% off
      Buy x units, get $x USD off or x+1 item money off
      Buy x units, get x% off or x+1 item money off
      Buy one get one free
    
    
      Free shipping
      Buy an item, get free shipping
    
  


Unsupported promotion types


  
    
      Promotion
      Type
      Additional info
    
    
      Promotion Bundles
      Bundle: save $x USD when you buy x & y
       
    
    
      Free gift or gift card
      Gift or gift card with purchase
       
    
    
      Free shipping
      Free or discounted shipping
       
    
    
      Unstructured or combined promotions
      Custom or combined promotions
      Promotions on Buy on Google must be structured promotions.
    
    
      Does not add value
      Mail in rebate
      Must provide a monetary discount or an additional good or service not normally associated with the purchase
    
    
      Restrictive
      Customer targeting: new customers, existing customers, students, store credit card holders...
      Example: 
      10% off for Seniors and Military
      5% off with Visa credit card
      Must be generally accessible to most customers
    
    
      Limit per customer
       
    
  


Add value

Promotions must provide a monetary discount or an additional good or service not normally associated with the purchase. All promotions are applied at checkout or point of sale.

Promotions can't be:


  Trade-in offers
  Mail-in or email rebates
  Products and services that are usually free
  Sweepstakes
  Text used to advertise a product without a discount
  Less than $5 USD or 5% off the current price of an item
  Tax/value added tax (VAT) discounts
  Reflected in the stock keeping unit (SKU) price on the Shopping ads product page or product landing page



  Note: Maximum duration of the promotion is limited to 6 months (183 days). You are responsible for ensuring that your promotions comply with all applicable laws and regulations.


Adhere to Buy on Google policies

Some products or services can't be promoted in Buy on Google. For details, see the Buy on Google policy restrictions. Google reserves the right to remove any promotion from your Buy on Google listing at any time for any reason.

Adhere to editorial requirements for titles

Promotion titles should be concise, easy to understand, accurate, and only represent the value of the specific deal being promoted.

Titles need to:


  Clearly state any minimum thresholds/items needed for deal
  Disclose any redemption requirements
  Clearly state the conditions and any restrictions or limitations of the offer
  Ensure that title text has only one promo applicable to Buy on Google


Titles can't:


  Attempt to trick or mislead customers


See our Editorial requirements for a list of additional editorial requirements, best practices, and instructions on how to format your promotion's text. To optimize the quality of your promotions, Google may contact your business to request changes based on these guidelines.


  Note: Google or its affiliates may modify promotion text to make non-material changes (for example: size, formatting, punctuation, capitalization and spelling modifications).


Avoid overly restrictive promotions

Promotions must be generally accessible to all customers. Promotions available only to a subset of customers or specific payment methods that are different from the website’s normal payment restrictions are unacceptable. Examples of overly restrictive promotions can include, but are not limited to:


  "$10 USD off for Teachers & Students"
  "10% off for Seniors and Military”
  “$15 USD off on your birthday”
  "First time customers"
  “10% Discount with Like”
  "5% off with Visa credit card"
  "10% off when you complete a short survey at check-out"



  Note: Promotions for discounts on paid memberships are acceptable.


Make promoted products clear to the shopper

Customers must be able to redeem promotions for all eligible products.

If a promotion is limited to specific products, the exclusions (and any other applicable terms and conditions) need to be called out by indicating conditions using the following attribute:


  
  
  
    
      Fine print [fine_print]
      
      Optional

      Syntax

      
        String
        Maximum length is 500 characters.
      
      
      
      This attribute is the text of any terms and conditions that apply to the promotion, such as restrictions and exclusions.

      The terms and conditions will be shown to the customer along with a generic redemption code [generic_redemption_code].
      
    
  



  Need help? Click here to contact Buy on Google support.


             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       