 How to fix: Value too high: handling time [handling time]Enter a lower value
  Buy on Google for Search and Shopping will no longer be available starting September 26, 2023. Eligible merchants will be able to use Buy on Google for YouTube in the US. Learn more about Enabling Buy on Google for YouTube.





One or more of the values submitted for the handling time [handling_time] attribute is too high, or the shipping service is configured with invalid handling times at the account level. The recommended handling time for all products submitted for Buy on Google is 4 days or less.

In the “Handling time in business days” field, enter the minimum number of days required for processing an order, followed by the maximum number of days that processing could take. If you process items the same day they are ordered, your minimum handling time is considered “0”. For the maximum handling time, count only your business days and do not include non-working days or non-working public holidays.

Item-level attributes let you provide handling details for an individual product. You should only use these attributes when you need to override the corresponding settings at the account level. If all of your items require the same amount of time to process, it’s better to configure the handling times in Merchant Center within each shipping service.

If, however, the processing time varies by product, handling time should be added to the product feed for each item. When the handling time values exist in both Merchant Center and in the product feed, the item-level value will override the Merchant Center value for that specific item only.


  Important: Orders that aren't shipped within 3 days past your maximum handling time may be canceled automatically. For example, if you have a handling time of 2 days, and you don’t ship an order within 5 days from when it is placed, that order will be cancelled. To ensure a good customer experience, make sure your handling times are accurate.


Instructions


  Step 1: Check and correct values for shipping services

  
    
      Sign in to your Merchant Center account.
      Click the tools icon , then select Shipping and returns under “Tools.”
      You should land on the "Shipping services" tab. To view and edit the details of a particular service, click the service name you want to edit under the find the “Service name” column.This will open the “Edit shipping service” form.
      To update the handling time, scroll to the “Delivery time” section and enter your default minimum and maximum handling time in business days
    
  



  Step 2a: See affected products at the item level

  
    
  Sign in to your Merchant Center account.
  Select Products on the navigation menu, then click Diagnostics.
  Click the Item issues tab to see current issues affecting your products.


To download a list (.csv) of all affected products for all issues:


  Click the download button  next to the filter button , beneath the graph and above the list of issues.


To download a list (.csv) of all affected products for a particular issue:


  Find the issue under the “Issue” column, then click the download button  at the end of the row.


To see a list of up to 50 products with this particular issue:


  Find the issue under the “Issue” column, then click View examples in the “Affected items” column.



     
  

  
    Step 2b: Correct invalid values at the item level

    
      
        Filter the downloaded report so that you only see products with:
          “Issue title” = Value too high : handling time [handling_time]
        Check your submitted product data for those products (using the item ID), and make sure each item has handling times within the permitted range.
      
    

    
      Step 3: Resubmit your product data

      
        
          
            
              After you've added the correct shipping information, resubmit it using one of these methods:

              
                Upload a feed
                Submit through the Content API
                Import content from an ecommerce platform 
              
            
            Check that you’ve fixed the issue by making sure it’s no longer listed on the Diagnostics page.
              
              Keep in mind: It may take some time for your change to be reflected on the Diagnostics page.
          
        
      
    
  

  Related links

  
    About item disapprovals for policy violations
    Minimum handling time [min_handling_time], maximum handling time [max_handling_time]
    Shipping [shipping]
    About shipping policies for Buy on Google
    Set up shipping settings at the account level
    Quickstart guide for shipping and taxes
    Shopping Data Quality violations: Shipping
  

             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       