 Survey opt-in module troubleshooting

This article describes some common errors that you might encounter when implementing the survey opt-in module.

The opt-in module is not visible

If the opt-in module is not visible on your order confirmation page, look for the following possible sources of problems:


  
    
      Problem
      Diagnosis
    
    
      The HTML code source does not contain the opt-in module code
      View the HTML source in your browser and check that exactly one instance of the opt-in module code block appears on the page
    
    
      The opt-in module is off-screen or blocked by other elements
      The module might be rendered beyond the boundaries of the viewable area. Try scrolling 
    
    
      Your browser is unsupported
      Your browser must support HTML 5. Update it to the latest version.
    
    
      E-commerce platform integration
      Some e-commerce platforms may have compatibility issues. Reach out to your e-commerce provider to understand implementation options.
    
    
      Confirmation page on a different domain
      If your check-out process uses a third-party processor, it must redirect back to a confirmation page on your domain.
    
    
      Opt-in module code added to Google Tag Manager
      Google Tag Manager currently cannot be used for the opt-in code integration.
    
  


The page encounters JavaScript errors

The following table lists common sources of issues with the opt-in module's JavaScript:


  
    
      Problem
      Diagnosis
    
    
      Placeholder values
      Replace the placeholder above with your site-specific, dynamic values
    
    
      A required parameter is missing
      
      When implementing the opt-in module code, the following modules are required:

      
        merchant_id
        order_id
        email
        delivery_country
        estimated_delivery_date
      
      
    
    
      DOCTYPE must be HTML 5
      
      Be sure that your order confirmation page uses the HTML 5 DOCTYPE:

      <!DOCTYPE html>
      
    
    
      estimated_delivery_date is invalid
      The date must be in the format YYYY-MM-DD, where YYYY is the four-digit year, MM is the two-digit month, and DD is the two-digit day. The value is a string and must be surrounded by quotation marks. For example, "2016-09-13".
    
    
      opt_in_style is invalid
      
      The value of the opt_in_style parameter can be one of the following strings

      
        "CENTER_DIALOG"
        "BOTTOM_RIGHT_DIALOG"
        "BOTTOM_LEFT_DIALOG"
        "TOP_RIGHT_DIALOG"
        "TOP_LEFT_DIALOG"
        "BOTTOM_TRAY"
      
      
    
    
      Website not using HTTPS
      All confirmation pages must used HTTPS
    
    
      Mismatched website URL
      The opt-in module code must be implemented on the same website URL as the one verified and claimed in Merchant Center. This issue typically generates a 404 javascript error
    
  


 

Survey not received


  
    
      Problem
      Diagnosis
    
    
      Incorrect email address
      Ensure that you're passing correctly formatted email addresses into the module, otherwise, the survey emails will not be delivered correctly
    
    
      Incorrect country codes
      Ensure that you're passing correct country codes into the opt-in module. This value must be in ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 format. If incorrect country codes are passed, no error will be generated, but the survey will not be sent.
    
    
      Not enough time has passed
      
      Ensure that the ESTIMATED_DELIVERY_DATE for the order has passed. Customers who opt-in to the survey receive an email that asks them to rate their experience in a few days after the estimated delivery date that you included for the order in the survey opt-in module.

      Additionally, the information shown in Merchant Center graphs can be delayed up to 1 week.
      
    
  


 
             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       