 Use the Retailer Standards dashboard
  Buy on Google for Search and Shopping will no longer be available starting September 26, 2023. Eligible merchants will be able to use Buy on Google for YouTube in the US. Learn more about Enabling Buy on Google for YouTube.



This article explains how to use the Retailer Standards dashboard to monitor and improve your Buy on Google Retailer Standards performance.

How it works

You’ll receive an email notification about your new score on the first day of each month, but regularly monitoring your performance may help you maintain a higher Retailer Standards score. The scorecard shows your current performance score, as well as real time statistics, score history, and trends. You can also review orders with defects.

Instructions

To access the Retailer Standards tab in Merchant Center:


  Sign into your Merchant Center account.
  Click Performance in the navigation menu.
  Click Retailer Standards.


The Retailer Standards tab, in the performance bar of Merchant Center, includes 2 sections:


  The Overview section provides a general overview of the account performance during the last evaluation period. If you’re new to Buy on Google, the scorecard will not show current statistics.
  The Details section provides detailed reporting on each of the defects discovered during evaluation cycle and real time defects.


How to use the Overview section


  In the Overview section, you’ll find the following information:

  Action items

  
    
      
        Fix pending shipments
        Shipments need to be marked as shipped with valid tracking information to prevent a defect.
      
      
        Fix invalid tracking Information
        Shipments need a valid tracking number entered before the "original promise date" to prevent a defect.
      
      
        Fix missing tracking information
        Shipments need a valid tracking number entered before the "original promise date" to prevent a defect.
      
    
  

  Performance scorecard

  
    
      
        Action items
        Three tiles surface orders that need immediate action to prevent a Retailer Standards defect.
      
      
        Scorecard
        
        Displays your Retailer Standards score for the last evaluation cycle, indicating the scoring timeframe.

        Note: If the card is grayed out, this means that you’re yet not eligible for the Retailer Standards score.
        
      
      
        Score history
        Gives you an overview of the Retailer Standards score month over month.
      
      
        Metrics at a glance
        Track your defects over time including current date.
      
      
        How you compare to other retailers
        
        Displays your Item defect rate and shipping defect rate in comparison to all the other retailers and in relation to the performance scores.

        When you hover over this card, you’ll see a description of your score and the percentile of merchants each defect rate refers to.
        
      
    
  

  Performance breakdown

  
    
      
        Item defect rate
        Item defects as a ratio of total items fulfilled.
      
      
        Shipping defect rate
        Shipping defects as a ratio of total items fulfilled.
      
      
        Delivery defect rate
        Delivery defects as a ratio of total items fulfilled.
      
      
        Return defect rate
        Return defects as a ratio of total items fulfilled.
      
    
  


How to use the Details section


  In the Details section, you’ll find the following information:

  
    
      
        Item cancellations
        
        
          Items canceled by the seller
          Items canceled by Google due to not being shipped within 3 days of seller provided handling time
          1 or 2 star customer reviews
        
        
      
      
        Late delivery
        
        May happen if:

        
          Items are shipped late and delivered late
          Items are shipped on-time and delivered late
        
        
      
      
        Items delivered with invalid tracking number
        
        These include:

        
          Missing tracking information
          Incorrect tracking numbers
          Used tracking numbers
          Duplicate tracking numbers
          No carrier scan
        
        
      
      
        Orders with 1 or 2 star customer reviews
        
        
          Negative reviews due to poor customer service, late delivery, item cancellations, or item tracking issues
        
        
      
    
  



  Note: Merchants are responsible for maintaining relationships with their carriers. Google may not advise on carrier delays in the instances when the order met the handling time, but not the expected delivery time


To restore your account or to escalate a dispute, contact us. After you've submitted your appeal, a member of the Buy on Google team will be in touch.


  Need help? Click here to contact Buy on Google support.



Related links


  Return settings requirements for Buy on Google (US only)
  About shipping policies for Buy on Google
  About Buy on Google Retailer Standards and policies
  How to improve your Retailer Standards rating

             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       