 How to fix:  Inconsistent value: multipack [multipack]Submit this product with consistent values for these attributes: multipack [multipack], title [title], description [description], image link [image_link]

For one or more of your products, an inconsistency has been detected in the values submitted for one of the following attributes: multipack [multipack], title [title], description [description], or image link [image_link]. Submitting the correct values for these attributes is important in distinguishing your product from similar products.

For example, submitting the correct multipack quantity helps to distinguish your product from manufacturer-created multipacks and single-pack products. It also helps customers understand the value of your product.

Instructions


  Step 1: See the affected products

  
    
  Sign in to your Merchant Center account.
  Select Products on the navigation menu, then click Diagnostics.
  Click the Item issues tab to see current issues affecting your products.


To download a list (.csv) of all affected products for all issues:


  Click the download button  next to the filter button , beneath the graph and above the list of issues.


To download a list (.csv) of all affected products for a particular issue:


  Find the issue under the “Issue” column, then click the download button  at the end of the row.


To see a list of up to 50 products with this particular issue:


  Find the issue under the “Issue” column, then click View examples in the “Affected items” column.


  



  Step 2: Verify attribute value

  
    
      
        Filter the downloaded report so that you only see products with:
          “Issue title” = Inconsistent value
        Adjust the value(s) for the attribute(s). For example, if you are selling a retailer-defined multipack and did not submit the multipack quantity, submit the correct value using the multipack [multipack] attribute.
        If you already submitted a value for the attribute, please review the value you submitted, and correct it as needed.
      
    
  



  Step 3: Resubmit your product data

  
    
      
  After you’ve updated your product data, resubmit it using one of these methods:
    
      Upload a feed
      Submit through the Content API
      Import content from an ecommerce platform
    
  
  Next, check that you’ve fixed the issue by making sure it’s no longer listed on the Diagnostics page.
    
    Keep in mind: It may take some time for your change to be reflected on the Diagnostics page.


    

    If you feel your item was incorrectly flagged, please reach out to our support team or your Google contact. You can get help with reapproving your item in the following cases:

    
      Your item is a manufacturer-defined multipack and not a retailer-defined multipack. In this case, you are not required to provide a value for the multipack [multipack] attribute.
      Your item is a retailer-defined multipack and the value you submitted for the multipack [multipack] attribute matches the multipack quantity of your item.
    
  

             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       