 Onboarding GuideChoose where your customers check outNext: Navigate Google Merchant Center
  Buy on Google for Search and Shopping will no longer be available starting September 26, 2023. Eligible merchants will be able to use Buy on Google for YouTube in the US. Learn more about Enabling Buy on Google for YouTube.





While you create your Merchant Center account, you’ll be asked to select where you’d like your customers to check out — on your website, at your local store, or on Google. You can select more than one option, and edit your choices at any time.

 Check out on your website


  Enable product offers to show in free product listings. This way, people will find your products listed across different Google properties — including Search and Image Search — with data pulled from your product feed. When you update the feed, your updates are made automatically across the whole network.

  Learn more about free product listings

  Availability

  Free listings are available globally.

  Benefits

  
    Share rich, engaging listings. Your detailed product information can appear on Google Search and other Google services.
    Connect with customers where they are. Reach customers when they're searching for your products.
    Increase your visibility. Drive traffic to your website for order fulfillment.
  

  Read the policies you need to follow to use free listings.


 Check out in your local store


  By participating in free local product listings, your in-store products can appear in free listings across Google properties, including Google Search, Google Images, the Shopping tab, Google Maps, and Google Lens (availability of listing types varies by country).

  Listings are targeted at local users who are searching for products you sell in your stores. Changes you make in your product feed are automatically reflected in these listings, so your local customers will only find items that are in stock in the stores closest to them.

  Availability

  Retailers who have brick and mortar stores in the countries listed here can have their products appear in free local listings.

  Benefits

  
    Deliver rich information widely. Your free local listings might be eligible to appear on Google Search and other Google surfaces, adding wide reach to your local advertising strategy.
    Promote your in-store inventory to local audiences. Let local shoppers know that your store has the item they’re searching for on Google.
    Connect with customers where they are. Reach customers when they’re actively searching for a product you have in stock. Customers look at your product listing on Google and visit your local store to buy. Learn more about local inventory ads
  

  Read the policies you need to follow to list your local products for free.

  
    Tip: Eligible retailers can use Pointy from Google to easily add local product information to your products across Google. Available for retailers located in the US, CA, UK & IE. Get started.
  


  Check out on Google


  If you’ve selected the US as the country for your business, you may be eligible to participate in Buy on Google, which allows you to sell your products directly on Google. Learn more about selling on Google

  Availability

  Buy on Google is available in the US.

  Benefits

  
    Promote customer loyalty. Let users know they can get items quickly and directly from your store or warehouse without shipping delays.
    Broaden your reach. Improve the shopping experience by offering frictionless check out on Google
  

  Read the participation criteria to learn if Buy on Google is a good fit for your business, and review the policies you need to follow to use this feature.



  You’ll have the option to activate Google Ads and start a campaign after your account is active. Learn more about getting started with Shopping ads

Next: Navigate Google Merchant Center             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       