 Market Insights policy

Market Insights allow you to view the price competitiveness and best sellers reports in Merchant Center. If you’re eligible, you can navigate to "Growth" and click "Manage programs" to enable Market Insights.

Who’s eligible

Merchant Center account administrators can enable Market Insights. The reports under Market Insights are subject to the Merchant Center Terms of Service.

Additionally, the account must meet certain minimum requirements for participation in Shopping ads, free listings, and Buy on Google. 

Use

Market Insights reports are only available for the internal use of the retailer, or those acting on the retailer's behalf. Market Insights data cannot be resold, publicly displayed, advertised, or aggregated across businesses. For purposes of Market Insights, “retailer” means the business entity owning the domain of the products being sold or selling products on a marketplace.

You must ensure that your use, or any third party's use, of Market Insights data exported from your Merchant Center account complies with the Market Insights policy.

Availability

Both the price competitiveness report and the best sellers report are available for all countries. However, while the price competitiveness report can show data for all countries, the best sellers report can currently only show data for the following countries:


  
    
      
        
        
          Australia
          Austria
          Brazil
          Belgium
          Canada
          Czech Republic
          Denmark
          Finland
        
        
        
        
          France
          Germany
          Hungary
          India
          Ireland
          Italy
          Japan
          Mexico
        
        
        
        
          Netherlands
          New Zealand
          Norway
          Poland
          Portugal
          Romania
          Russia
          Slovakia
        
        
        
        
          Spain
          Sweden
          Switzerland
          Turkey
          Ukraine
          United Kingdom
          United States
        
        
      
    
  


Related links


  About the price competitiveness report
  About the best sellers report

             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       