 How to fix: Duplicate Business Profile

If one or more store codes in your local inventory data is referencing a Business Profile that has been identified as a duplicate, inventory data associated with it will be rejected. Business Profiles can either be a duplicate of a Business Profile to which you already have access to or a business to which you don’t have access. The Business Profile interface will indicate whether or not you have access to the original listing.

Fix your issue


  Step 1 of 3: View the affected store codes

  
    
      
        In your Merchant Center account, select Products on the navigation menu, then click Feeds.
        Click the name of your local product inventory feed.
        In the “Processing” tab, click Download file.
        Open the file and filter by error “Duplicate Business Profile.”
      
    
  



  Step 2 of 3: Investigate the duplicate store listings

  
    
      
        In your Business Profile Manager, go to “Businesses.”
        Identify all Business Profiles with the status “Duplicate.”
          
            Utilize the status filter and set it to “Duplicate” to display all businesses which are accessible to you.
          
        
        Click on the business identified as “Duplicate” to reach the overview page for this business.
        On the overview page, the “Duplicate business” will be called out in a red box.
        If you have access to the original business of which this Business Profile is a duplication, you’ll see the “View original” link. If you don’t have access, a “Request access” link will be displayed instead.
        Once you have access to both profiles, ensure the verified profile is in the same business group that is linked to your Merchant Center account. Update your inventory feed to match the store code of the verified profile. If you need to move the verified profile to a different business group, follow the steps here.
        If you believe your business that was incorrectly marked as a duplicate, follow the instructions here.
      
    
  



  Step 3 of 3: Resubmit your product data

  
    
      
        After updating your store codes, resubmit your inventory feed using one of these methods:
          
            Upload a feed
            Submit through the Content API
          
        
        Next, check if you’ve fixed the issue by making sure it’s no longer listed on the processing report.
      

      
        Note: It can take up to 24 hours to sync your business locations into your Merchant Center account, so we recommend that you upload your inventory feed 24 hours after linking accounts, or after a store code is updated in your Business Profile.
      
    
  


 
             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       