 Headline [headline] (Collections)

Use the headline [headline] attribute to add a short description of your collection. People are most likely to notice your headline text, so consider highlighting aspects of your collection that help customers in their shopping journey.


When to use


 Optional, but recommended.


If you do not provide a headline, we may display an alternative text showing, for example, your store name or domain name.


Format

Follow these formatting guidelines to make sure Google understands the data you're submitting.

For details on when and how to submit values in English, learn more about submitting your product data



  
    
      Type
      String (Unicode characters, Recommend: ASCII only)
    
    
      Limits
      1-150 characters
    
    
      Repeated Field
      Yes
    
  




  
    
      File format
      Example value
    
    
      Text (TSV)
      Shop our new collection of premium leather sofas
    
    
      XML (Feeds)
      <headline>Shop our new collection of premium leather sofas.</headline>
    
  



Guidelines

Follow these guidelines to make sure you submit high-quality data for your collections.


Minimum requirements

These are the requirements you need to meet to show your collection. If you don't follow these requirements, we'll disapprove your collection and let you know in the Diagnostics page of your Merchant Center account.


Note: If your headline does not fit within the character limit, Google will truncate it to fit. You will receive a warning indicating that the headline has been truncated.



  Do not exceed the maximum length of 150 characters.
  Use a relevant headline that clearly describes your collection.
  Describe the collection shown on your landing page. Make sure your headline describes the collection that you’re linking to using the link [link] or mobile link [mobile_link] attributes.
  Use professional and grammatically correct language. Correct grammar is easier to understand and gives you a more professional appearance, which can lead to more clicks. Avoid gimmicky ways of drawing attention such as all caps, symbols, HTML tags, and promotional text. Learn more about the editorial & professional requirements
  Avoid words from foreign languages unless they’re well understood, such as a product with a foreign name or title.
  Don’t use capital letters for emphasis. Capitalized text is common in spam and untrustworthy ads. You should still use capitalization when it’s appropriate, including for abbreviations, phone numbers, countries, and currency (for example, ADHD, UNICEF, 1-555-CALL-NOW, UK, and USD).
  Don’t include promotional text such as price, sale price, sale dates, shipping, delivery date, other time-related information, or your company’s name.
  Don’t use extra white spaces. Instead, use those characters in a more effective way to describe your collection.



Best practices

These best practices can help you go beyond the basic requirements to optimize your collection data for performance.



  Be specific and use accurate keywords. The more specific you are in your headline, the easier it is for customers to identify the products that they are searching for.
  Mention your collection’s most relevant features and visual attributes, such as “Leather Sofa Collection” and “Summer Garden Furniture”.



Examples



  Sofa collection

  
    
      
        
          Product data for a sofa collection
        
        
          Attribute
          Value
        
        
          ID [id]
          Sofas 2019
        
        
          Headline [headline]
          Leather sofas ready to take home
        
      
    
  


             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       