 Language [language] (Collections)

Use the language [language] attribute to specify the language of the featured products in your product feeds that are linked to your collection.


When to use


 Optional if you have featured products linked to your collection.


Format

Follow these formatting guidelines to make sure Google understands the data you're submitting.

For details on when and how to submit values in English, learn more about submitting your product data



  
    
      Type
      String (Unicode characters. Recommended: ASCII only)
    
    
      Limits
      2-character ISO-639-1 language code
    
    
      Repeated Field
      No
    
  




  
    
      File format
      Example value
    
    
      Text feeds
      en
    
    
      XML feeds
      <g:language>en</g:language>
    
  



Guidelines

Follow these guidelines to make sure you submit high-quality data for your collections.


Minimum requirements

These are the requirements you need to meet to show your collection. If you don't follow these requirements, we'll disapprove your collection and let you know in the Diagnostics page of your Merchant Center account.



  Use only one language for each collection. To include multiple languages, create multiple collections, each with a different language. 
  Always specify a language for collections that have featured products. This will allow us to determine specific products associated with your collection.



Best practices

These best practices can help you go beyond the basic requirements to optimize your collection data for performance.



  Only link products with the same language as the language for your collection if your collection has featured products.



Examples



  Sofa collection

  
    
      
        
          For a sofa collection
        
        
          
          Attribute
          
          
          Value
          
        
        
          
          ID [id]
          
          Sofas2019Q1
        
        
          
          Language [language]
          
          EN
        
      
    
  



  Refrigerator collection

  
    
      
        
          For a stainless steel refrigerator
        
        
          
          Attribute
          
          
          Value
          
        
        
          
          ID [id]
          
          Fridges2019Q
        
        
          
          Language [language]
          
          FR
        
      
    
  


             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       