 How to fix: Store code found in not linked business groups

One or more store codes in your local inventory data could not be found in the business group linked to your Google Merchant Center account. However, the relevant store codes were matched with store codes in another business group associated with the linked Business Profile owners or managers.


  Note: Please verify the Business Profiles with the identified store codes carefully to ensure that these are associated with the Business Profiles you intend to utilize for your local products. The store code that matched to Business Profiles in another business group could be the result of a formatting error or due to matching with an identical store code that is associated with an unrelated Business Profile.


Fix your issue


  Step 1 of 3: View the affected store codes

  
    
      
        In your Merchant Center account, select Products on the navigation menu, then click Feeds.
        Click the name of your local product inventory feed.
        In the “Processing” tab, click Download file.
        Open the file and filter by error “Store code found in not linked business groups.”
      
    
  

  
    Step 2 of 3: Investigate the business groups

    
      
        
          In your Business Profile Manager, go to “Businesses.”
          Toggle through your business groups to find the store code in question.
          Take action:
            
              If only a few stores are affected, you can transfer them to the business group linked to your Merchant Center account by following the instructions here.
              If all your stores are affected, update your Merchant Center business group linking to the correct one by following instructions here.
            
          
        
      
    

    
      Step 3 of 3: Resubmit your product data

      
        
          
            After claiming your business, resubmit your inventory feed using one of these methods:
              
                Upload a feed
                Submit through the Content API
              
            
            Next, check if you’ve fixed the issue by making sure it’s no longer listed on the processing report.
          

          
            Note: It can take up to 24 hours to sync your business locations into your Merchant Center account, so we recommend that you upload your inventory feed 24 hours after linking accounts, or after a store code is updated in your Business Profile.
          
        
      
    
  

             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       