 About cross-border selling for Buy on Google

Buy on Google is currently available only in the US, but you may still be able to participate in Buy on Google if your business is incorporated in a different country, but sells to customers in the US.

This article explains the requirements for businesses incorporated in Canada and the US that would like to sell internationally to Buy on Google US. Check back soon for more supported countries and corridors.

How it works

All cross-border merchants must meet the following requirements:


  Inventory free of restricted products and services: Certain product categories aren't supported.
  A valid government-issued ID or document: This requirement varies based on your country of incorporation—details below.
  Compliance with all other Buy on Google policies.
  Compliance with all other Shopping ads policies: If you also participate in Shopping ads, you'll need to adhere to Shopping ads policies, with a Shopping ads account free of violations and with good product health.



  
    Important: When shipping internationally, Google isn't to be the importer or exporter. Import and export are the responsibility of the merchant.

    Your return location can be in a country that is supported for business incorporation on Buy on Google.
  


Depending on the country in which your company is incorporated or legally registered, the onboarding process works differently and different documents are required.

Requirements by country


  United States

  
    
      
        
          
            
              
              Income Tax Document
              
              
              W-9
              
            
            
              
              Business license or Incorporation Document
              
              
              Business Registration Document. Accepted documents:

              
                W-9
                CP 575
                Articles of Incorporation
              

              Business Registration Number. Accepted registration numbers:

              
                EIN
              
              
            
            
              
              Legal Representative’s ID
              
              
              Valid US ID
              
            
            
              Permitted bank account country
              US (disbursement in USD)
            
          
        
      
    
  



  Canada

  
    
      
        
          
            
              
              Income Tax Document
              
              
              W-8 BEN-E
              
            
            
              
              Business license or Incorporation Document
              
              
              Business Registration Document. Accepted documents:

              
                Certificate of Incorporation
                Articles of Incorporation
                Certificate of Status/Good Standing/Existence
                Certificate of Compliance
              

              Business Registration Number. Accepted registration numbers:

              
                BN (Business Number)
              
              
            
            
              
              Legal Representative’s ID
              
              
              Valid CA ID
              
            
            
              Permitted bank account country
              Canada (disbursement in CAD) or US (disbursement in USD)
            
          
        
      
    
  


Related links


  Create rich product description pages
  Set up your payments and billing for Buy on Google

             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       