 Convert an Amazon feed file into a .csv or a tab-separated fileMost spreadsheet programs allow you to export data into a tab-separated file. The options below describe how to create the 2 supported file formats for Amazon-formatted feeds in Merchant center.

Convert to a .csv file

If you're using Microsoft Excel:


  Open your file with Excel and navigate to the worksheet where the data to upload is.
  Open the “File” menu and select Save as.
  In the “Save as type” drop-down box, select the Text (comma delimited) (*.csv) option.
  Click Save. If you see warning messages pop up, click OK or Yes.


If you're using Google Sheets:


  Open your file in Google Sheets and navigate to the sheet where the data to upload is.
  From the “File” menu, select Download, then click Comma-separated values (.csv, current sheet). This will download the currently selected sheet as a comma-separated .CSV file, inheriting the name of your spreadsheet. Click Save as or Save File As from the “File” menu.
  Name your file, and be sure to specify the file type as a CSV File (*.csv) if it gives you the option. Click Save.


Convert to a tab-separated file (*.txt or *.tsv)

If you're using Microsoft Excel:


  Open your file with Excel and navigate to the worksheet where the data to upload is.
  Open the “File” menu and select the Save as.
  In the “Save as type” drop-down box, select the Text (tab delimited) (*.txt) option.
  Click Save. If you see warning messages pop up, click OK or Yes.


If you're using Google Sheets:


  Open your file in Google Sheets and navigate to the sheet where the data to upload is.
  From the “File” menu, select Download, then click Tab-separated values (.tsv, current sheet). This will download the currently selected sheet.
  Name your file, and be sure to specify the file type as a *.tsv (or *.txt) if it gives you the option.
  Click Save.



  About using formats for Amazon feeds in your Merchant Center account (beta)
  How to fix: Unable to extract value from attribute
  How to fix: Unsupported destination for Google catalog product
  How to fix: Unable to map provided attribute
  How to fix: Missing parent product attributes


             Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       